Voters’
Pamphlet

Oregon Special Election
January 31, 2012

To the voters of Oregon’s 1st Congressional District:

Right now, you have the opportunity to choose who will represent you and 
your interest in the U.S. Congress. The state is conducting a special general 
election to ﬁ ll a vacant Congressional seat created by the resignation of 
former Congressman David Wu. 

Your vote is your voice. I encourage you to take the time to carefully 
read each statement as you consider which candidate to support, and make 
sure you get your ballot to your county elections ofﬁ ce by 8:00 pm on 
January 31st.   

Similar to the special primary in November, I have enclosed candidate’s 
statements as an insert with your ballot. Doing this saved signiﬁ cant 
tax-dollars in postage during a time when Oregon continues to suffer a 
period of slow economic growth.

Oregon is one of only a handful of states that offer voters a variety of online 
services including the ability to update your registration, track your ballot 
and ﬁ nd the nearest ballot drop sites. Just go to www.oregonvotes.org and 
click on My Vote.  

Thank you for taking your civic responsibility seriously and making your voice 
heard. 

Sincerely,

Kate Brown
Oregon Secretary of State

My Vote!
Register to vote, check or update your 
registration and track your ballot online.

Find a dropsite
Your ballot must be received 
by 8 pm on January 31.
oregonvotes.org

Representative 
in Congress, 
1st District
Candidates
 
James Foster
Libertarian Party

Rob Cornilles
Republican Party

Suzanne Bonamici
Democratic Party
Independent Party

Steven Reynolds
Progressive Party

for more information about 
voting in Oregon:
oregonvotes.org

1 866 673 VOTE / 1 866 673 8683 
se habla español

1 800 735 2900
for the hearing impaired

2

Candidates 

Representative in Congress, 1st District

Representative in Congress, 1st District

James 
Foster
Libertarian Party

Occupation: Software Engineer
Occupational Background: 
Programming Manager; 
Systems Architect; Attorney; 
Commercial Pilot
Educational Background: BA, 

Walla Walla; MS, North Dakota State; JD, UCLA
Prior Governmental Experience: Staff Attorney, Bureau of 
Consumer Protection, FTC
For decades Republicans and Democrats have showered our 
money on corporations and interest groups. These bailouts and 
subsidies have run up a huge debt to be paid by our children 
and grandchildren. This must stop. 
Last year the federal government had $2.25 trillion in revenue 
and borrowed $1.35 trillion to spend $3.6 trillion. Per house-
hold, this is equivalent to spending $31,300 on an income of 
$19,600 and putting the difference of $11,700 on a credit card. 
This must stop. 
US troops are deployed in over 150 countries. Hand-outs to 
rich countries like Germany and Japan undermine our own 
economy and security. Putting our brave soldiers in harm’s way 
to prop up corrupt third-world regimes does not make us safer. 
This must stop. 
Laws like “No Child Left Behind” meddle in local affairs and 
imposing counter-productive mandates. Real per-student 
federal spending on K-12 education has increased 375% since 
1970, but achievement of high school graduates has stayed flat 
or declined. This must stop. 
By forcing all Americans to buy products from private insur-
ance companies (ObamaCare), the federal government far 
exceeded its authority to regulate commerce. By creating 
uncertainty and the threat of further regulation, Congress has 
discouraged businesses from hiring. This must stop. 
Don’t waste your vote on the status quo. Your vote for  
James Foster will send a clear message: the bailouts and  
reckless spending must stop. 
As your Representative to Congress, I will honor my oath to 
uphold the Constitution. 
For more information visit http://www.VoteJamesFoster.com/.
(This information furnished by James Foster.)

Rob 
Cornilles
Republican Party

Occupation: President/Founder, 
Game Face Inc.
Occupational Background: 
Small business owner
Educational Background:  
Newberg High School; BYU, BA

Prior Governmental Experience: None
Community Involvement: Board Member: Oregon League 
of Minority Voters; Special Olympics Oregon; Virginia Garcia 
Memorial Foundation; Oregon International Air Show; former 
president of Southside Soccer. Volunteer: Good Neighbor 
Center; Tigard-Tualatin schools; coached 16 youth teams.
Family: Married to Allison Au (25 years), father of three sons, 
ages 21, 18, 15.

Oregon Jobs: Our #1 Priority

Our next representative should have experience…
Creating jobs and launching careers. Rob has helped 500 job 
seekers secure employment.
Building consensus. Rob has worked with 400 diverse and 
nationally known organizations to identify problems and imple-
ment solutions.
Meeting a payroll. Rob’s done just that for 195 straight months 
while, over time, employing 60 people.
Showing fiscal responsibility. Running a successful company 
for 16 years, Rob knows how to stick to a budget.
The problem in Congress today isn’t a shortage of lawyers. 
It’s that there aren’t enough consensus-builders who will shun 
partisan games and focus on creating sustainable jobs.

Simpler and Fairer Taxes

Mega-corporations and the super wealthy use loopholes 
to avoid taxes. The rest of us get stuck with the bill. Rob’s 
developed a plan to eliminate corporate loopholes and lower 
tax rates for everyone, creating more jobs and revenues.

An Independent Voice for Oregon

Rob is running to benefit people, not a party. His widely 
recognized skills are just what our district needs to grow the 
economy and promote our strengths. The choice is clear: Elect 
a conventional political insider and get more of the same, or 
put Oregon first by choosing a new kind of leader who will 
champion northwest Oregon in Congress.

Bipartisan Endorsements

District-wide, 20 mayors and hundreds of community and 
business leaders are voting for Rob Cornilles because they 
are convinced he is the most qualified and capable to grow 
our economy and create jobs – for today and tomorrow. Learn 
more at: 

www.CornillesForCongress.com

(This information furnished by Cornilles for Congress.)

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

Representative in Congress, 1st District

Representative in Congress, 1st District

Official 2012 Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet

3

Steven
Reynolds
Progressive Party

Occupation: “Unemployed, 
Disabled Veteran”
Occupational Background: “US 
Army \ Teaching \ Entrepreneur”
Educational Background: “West 
Point Graduate”

Prior Governmental Experience: “Lieutenant US Army”
I have never been afraid to do what others will not. I found 
great satisfaction in serving the nation honorably as a soldier, 
my community as a Big Brother, and the world as an ambas-
sador of goodwill. My commitment to serve the nation did not 
end with my injury. I am standing up now as a citizen that can-
not bear the embarrassment that our Congress has become. I 
ask that the people of Oregon stand with me.
Our Congress is a dysfunctional organization that does not 
respect the people it serves. They trade favors for campaign 
contributions. They pad their wealth with privileged informa-
tion. Further, they bicker while Oregon and the nation suffers.
Send the message that we need jobs. Our nations infrastruc-
ture is crumbling and we can put people to work today, fixing 
it. I intend to introduce legislation that will put people to work 
immediately through a program similar to that used during the 
great depression. We need jobs that can support a family and 
afford them the dignity that they deserve.
Now is not the time to send another multi-millionaire lawyer/
businessman type to Congress. The wealthy are disconnected 
from the reality that most of Oregon lives. They do not fear 
getting enough hours to pay their bills. Reject the Democratic 
and Republican candidates and send the message that Oregon 
is not OK with wealth being price to serve in Congress.
I am not going to Washington, DC to make friends. I have no 
interest in gaining wealth and power through the privilege that 
the position provides. The only special interests that I will serve 
are those of the people in my District. Duty, Honor, Country: 
are values that I hold close and I will take them with me to 
Congress and bring them back to government.
www.truth2012.org
(This information furnished by Steven Reynolds.)

 

Suzanne
Bonamici
Democratic Party 
Independent Party

Occupation: State Senator 
(May 2008 – November 2011)
Occupational Background: 
Consumer Protection Attorney

Educational Background: JD, BA, University of Oregon; AS 
Lane Community College
Prior Governmental Experience: State Senator and Representa-
tive; Attorney, Federal Trade Commission
Family: Married 26 years, two adult children

Suzanne Bonamici 

Integrity. Trust. 

The Right Priorities.

Congress has forgotten who it is supposed to serve. We need 
a leader who will fight for our priorities. You know where 
Suzanne stands and she has a record to prove it.
A Lifetime Standing Up for Middle Class Families, Seniors and 
Consumers
Suzanne worked her way through community college, college 
and law school. Now she works for us. 

•  Protecting consumers at the Federal Trade Commission, 

Suzanne held mortgage companies accountable when 
dishonest practices cost people their homes. 

•  As a legislator, she stopped predatory payday lenders and 

life insurance scams targeting seniors. 

•  As a volunteer and legislator, Suzanne fought to improve 

our public schools. 

A Champion for Small Business and Jobs
Suzanne’s first job was in her mom’s small business – learning 
the challenges and rewards firsthand. 

•  Suzanne passed legislation to help Oregonians start 

small businesses and to help Oregon businesses access 
resources to keep and create jobs. 

•  In the private sector, Suzanne fought for small- 

businesspeople when unprincipled corporations tried to 
cheat them out of their life savings.

The Right Priorities for Congress
Suzanne will attack the debt the right way.

•  End the Bush tax cuts for millionaires instead of making 

seniors, veterans and middle class families pay for a 
financial crisis they didn’t cause.

•  End tax giveaways for big oil companies making record 
profits instead of threatening education and job training.

•  Protect, don’t privatize Social Security and Medicare.

Some endorsements:

Oregon State Council for Retired Citizens

National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare

Oregon State Fire Fighters Council
Northwest Credit Union Association

Planned Parenthood Action Fund
Beaverton Education Association

Oregon Nurses Association

www.BonamiciForCongress.com

(This information furnished by Bonamici for Congress.)

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

www.oregonvotes.org

View unofficial election results
starting at 8 pm on January 31

for more information about voting in Oregon
oregonvotes.org

1 866 673 VOTE / 1 866 673 8683
se habla español

1 800 735 2900
for the hearing impaired

