Voters’
Pamphlet

Oregon Special Election
November 6, 2007

Bill Bradbury
Oregon Secretary of State

This Voters’ Pamphlet is provided for assistance
in casting your vote-by-mail ballot.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE

BILL BRADBURY

SECRETARY OF STATE

JEAN STRAIGHT

DEPUTY SECRETARY OF STATE

ELECTIONS DIVISION

JOHN LINDBACK

DIRECTOR

141 STATE CAPITOL

SALEM, OREGON 97310-0722

(503) 986-1518

Dear fellow Oregonian,

In the coming weeks, you will have another chance to take the future of our state in
your hands by voting. 

This November’s special election includes two ballot measures that deal with issues
that are important to our state. Because these measures touch on such fundamental
issues, they have attracted a large number of arguments. One hundred seventy-five
arguments outline the debates in favor of and against the measures. I encourage you
to spend some time reading through them so that you can vote wisely.

Special elections are those that are called by the Legislature when they refer issues to
the voters. Our initiative and referendum system – one of the first in the nation – is now
over 100 years old and gives the power of law-making to the people. That system only
works, however, when citizens choose to engage in it by voting.

We are lucky in Oregon to be a vote-by-mail state – the only one in America! But
increasingly, other states are investigating voting through the mail because it fits into
the busy demands of a 21st century lifestyle. With vote-by-mail, every voter has over
two weeks to read their Voters’ Pamphlet and fill out their ballot. Voters can deliberate
on their choices and discuss their ideas with friends and family before completing it.

October 16th is the last day to register to vote for this election if this is your first time
voting in Oregon. Because of our new centralized voter registration database, you 
can change your address until Election Day at 8 pm and still have the opportunity to
vote. 

If you have more questions about voting, please visit our website at 
www.oregonvotes.org. There you can find the locations of your local county elections
office as well as links that will help you find official ballot dropsites.

Remember, every vote counts, so make sure yours is among them. The future of
Oregon rests in your hands!

Best wishes,

Bill Bradbury
Oregon Secretary of State

General Information
Voters’ Pamphlet
Your official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
provides you with information about state measures 49 and 50.
These measures were referred to the ballot by the 2007
Legislature. Additionally, you can find information about 
vote-by-mail and voter registration, as well as contact 
information for county elections officials across the state.
For each of the measures in this Voters’ Pamphlet you will find
the following information:
(1) the ballot title;
(2) the estimate of financial impact;
(3) an explanation of the estimate of financial impact, if 

determined to be necessary by the committee;

(4) the complete text of the proposed measure;
(5) an impartial statement explaining the measure (explanatory

statement); 

(6) a legislative argument in support of the measure; and
(7) any arguments filed by proponents and opponents of the

measure.

The ballot title, estimate of financial impact, and explanatory
statement for each measure was written by the legislature.
Citizens or organizations may file arguments in favor of or in
opposition to measures by purchasing space for $500 or by
submitting a petition signed by 1,000 voters. Arguments in
favor of a measure appear first, followed by arguments in
opposition to the measure, and are printed in the order in which
they are filed with the Secretary of State’s office.
Measure arguments are printed as submitted by the
author. The state does not correct punctuation, 
grammar, syntax errors or inaccurate information. The
only changes made are attempts to correct spelling
errors if the word as originally submitted is not in the
dictionary. 
The Voters’ Pamphlet has been compiled by the Secretary of
State since 1903, when Oregon became one of the first states to
provide for the printing and distribution of such a publication.
One copy of the Voters’ Pamphlet is mailed to every household
in the state. Additional copies are available at the State Capitol,
local post offices, courthouses and all county elections offices.

Website
Most of the information contained in this Voters’ Pamphlet 
is also available in the Online Voters’ Guide at 
www.oregonvotes.org.

Español
Una versión en español de algunas partes de la Guía del Elector
está a su disposición en el portal del Internet cuya dirección
aparece arriba. Conscientes de que este material en línea
podría no llegar adecuadamente a todos los electores que
necesitan este servicio, se invita a toda persona a imprimir la
versión en línea y circularla a aquellos electores que no tengan
acceso a una computadora.

Important!
If your ballot is lost, destroyed, damaged or you make a mistake
in marking your ballot, you may call your county elections
office and request a replacement ballot. One will be mailed to
you as long as you request it by November 1, 2007. After that,
you may pick it up at the elections office. If you have already
mailed your original ballot before you realize you made a 
mistake, you have cast your vote and will not be eligible for a
replacement ballot.
Your voted ballot must be returned to your county elections
office by 8pm election day, Tuesday, November 6, 2007.
Postmarks do not count!
County elections offices are open on election day from
7am to 8pm.

Voter Information
For questions about voter registration, ballot delivery and
return, marking the ballot, requesting a replacement ballot,
absentee ballots, signature requirements, the Voters' Pamphlet,
when and where to vote, and other questions about elections
and voting, call the toll-free voter information line at 
1-866-ORE-VOTES (1-866-673-8683).
Voter information line representatives can provide services in
both English and Spanish. TTY services for the hearing
impaired are also available at 1-866-350-0596.

Table of Contents

County Elections Offices ....................................................

Measure 49 ..........................................................................

Measure 50 ..........................................................................

Vote-by-Mail Information....................................................

Page

90

7

63

87

Voter Registration Card ...................................................... 5, 88

Voter Registration Information ..........................................

Voters with Disabilities........................................................

4

6

Page

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
3 | General Information

Voter Registration Information
Registering to Vote
To vote in Oregon you need to be registered in the county
where you reside.
You can register if you can answer yes to these three questions:
  Are you a resident of Oregon?
  Are you a US citizen?*
  Are you at least 18 years old?*
*In some cases you can register to vote before you turn 18 or before you
become a citizen. For more information call 1-866-ORE-VOTES.

How to register
You can get a voter registration card at any of the following
places:
  in this Voters’ Pamphlet
  any County Elections Office
  the Secretary of State’s Office
  some state agencies such as the Division of Motor Vehicles
  a voter registration drive
You can fill the card out in person or send it in by US mail.
You can also print out a registration card online at
www.oregonvotes.org.
To vote in the November 6, 2007, Special Election, your 
completed voter registration card must be either:
  postmarked by Tuesday, October 16, 2007
  delivered to a county elections office by Tuesday, 

October 16, 2007 or

  delivered to any voter registration agency (e.g., DMV) by 

Tuesday, October 16, 2007.

Selecting a political party
You may want to select a political party when you register but it
is not required.

Updating your voter registration
Once you have registered, you are responsible for keeping your
information up to date. You can do this by completing and
returning a voter registration card with the new information.
You should update your registration if you do any of the
following:
  change your home address
  change your mailing address
  change your name
  change your signature
  want to change or select a political party
If you notify your county elections office of your change of
residence address after October 16, 2007, you must request that
a ballot be mailed to you or go to your county elections office to
get your ballot.

What information is required to register?
To complete your registration you will provide your:
  Full legal name
  Home address
  Date of birth
  Signature
  Valid identification

What are the identification requirements?
1. If you have a current, valid Driver’s License or ID number
issued by the State of Oregon Division of Motor Vehicles
(DMV), you must provide it on the card.

2. If you do not have a current, valid Driver’s License or 

ID number issued by the State of Oregon Division of Motor
Vehicles, you must affirm this on the card by marking the 
circle in Section 4 and you must then provide the last four
digits of your Social Security number in Section 4a of the
card.

3. If you do not have a Social Security number, you must affirm

this on the card by marking the circle in Section 4a. 

4. If you do not have a Driver’s License or ID number, or a 

Social Security number, and you are registering by mail, 
you must provide a copy of one of the following:

  valid photo identification
  a paycheck stub
  a utility bill 
  a bank statement
  a government document
  proof of eligibility under the Uniformed and Overseas

Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA) or the Voting Accessibility for
the Elderly and Handicapped Act (VAEH)

If you do not provide valid identification, you will not be eligible
to vote for federal races. You will, however, still be eligible to
vote for state and local contests.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
4 | General Information

continued  

   xxx -xx -1 qualifications   If you mark no in response to either of these questions, do not complete this form.Are you a citizen of the United States of America? yes   noWill you be 18 years of age on or before election day?  yes   no2 personal information   *denotes optional informationname     last      first     middleOregon residence address (include apt. or space number)  city     zip codedate of birth (month/day/year)    county of residence*phone number*    email address*mailing address (required if different than residence address)  city     zip code3 political party  choose one of the following:Constitution Party  Democratic Party Independent Party   Libertarian Party  Pacific Green Party Republican Party Working Familes Party Not a member of a party Other4 Oregon DMV Driver's License/ID number  If you fill in this section, do not send a copy of ID.valid Oregon DMV Driver's License/ID numberMark here only if you do not have a valid Oregon DMV Driver's License/ID  and go to step 4a.4a last four digits of Social Security number  If you fill in this section, do not send a copy of ID.  last four digits of Social Security number   Mark  here only if you do not have a valid Oregon DMV Driver's License/ID or   a Social Security number. If you are registering by mail, please include a copy of  acceptable identification, listed to the left. 5 signature   I swear or affirm that I am qualified to be an elector and I have told the truth on this registration.sign here         date today If you sign this card and know it to be false, you can be fined up to $125,000 and/or jailed for up to 5 years.6 registration updates  If you are previously registered and updating your information, fill out this section.previous registration name    previous county and statehome address on previous registration  date of birth (month/day/year)Voters with Disabilities
If, because of a disability, you would like assistance in 
voting your ballot
or
If you would like instructions on assisting voters with 
disabilities

call

tty

1 866 ORE VOTES/673 8683
se habla español

1 866 350 0596
for the hearing impaired

If, because of a disability, you would like a cassette or 
CD version of the Voters’ Pamphlet, the League of Women
Voters Easy To Read Voters’ Guide, or the League of
Women Voters Regular Nonpartisan Voters’ Guide

call

Talking Book and Braille Services
1 800 452 0292

Digital audio and accessible text versions of the 
Voters’ Pamphlet are available online at 
www.oregonvotes.org

Digital audio and accessible text versions of the 
League of Women Voters’ Guides are available online at 
www.lwvor.org/votersguide.htm

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
6 | General Information

Measure 49

House Bill 3540—Referred to the Electorate of Oregon by the
2007 Legislative Assembly to be voted on at the Special
Election, November 6, 2007.

Text of Measure

AN ACT

Ballot Title

49

MODIFIES MEASURE 37; CLARIFIES RIGHT TO BUILD
HOMES; LIMITS LARGE DEVELOPMENTS; PROTECTS
FARMS, FORESTS, GROUNDWATER.
RESULT OF “YES” VOTE: “Yes” vote modifies Measure 37;
clarifies private landowners’ rights to build homes; extends
rights to surviving spouses; limits large developments; protects
farmlands, forestlands, groundwater supplies.
RESULT OF “NO” VOTE: “No” vote leaves Measure 37
unchanged; allows claims to develop large subdivisions, 
commercial, industrial projects on lands now reserved for 
residential, farm and forest uses.
SUMMARY: Modifies Measure 37 (2004) to give landowners
with Measure 37 claims the right to build homes as 
compensation for land use restrictions imposed after they
acquired their properties. Claimants may build up to three
homes if previously allowed when they acquired their 
properties, four to 10 homes if they can document reductions 
in property values that justify additional homes, but may not
build more than three homes on high-value farmlands, 
forestlands and groundwater-restricted lands. Allows claimants
to transfer homebuilding rights upon sale or transfer of 
properties; extends rights to surviving spouses. Authorizes
future claims based on regulations that restrict residential uses
of property or farm, forest practices. Disallows claims for 
strip malls, mines, other commercial, industrial uses. 
See Explanatory Statement for more information.
ESTIMATE OF FINANCIAL IMPACT: The measure would
require one-time state administrative expenditures of $8.7 to
$12.5 million to evaluate claims received to date for adherence
to measure requirements.

In the short term, the measure would require state adminis-

trative expenditures of $1 million to $2 million per biennium 
to evaluate future claims. In the long term, state administrative
costs may be reduced as the measure limits the scope of 
potential future claims. The amount of those potential 
reductions cannot be determined.

Potential state litigation costs cannot be determined.
The measure authorizes compensation to landowners. The
amount of state expenditures to pay claims for compensation
cannot be determined.

The measure authorizes establishing a claims review fee for

new claims not to exceed the actual and reasonable cost of
reviewing a claim. The impact on state revenues cannot be
determined.

The measure clarifies ongoing claims review processes and
is expected to reduce local government claim processing costs
from current levels. The amount of these potential reductions
cannot be determined.

The measure authorizes compensation to landowners. 

The amount of local government expenditures to pay claims for
compensation cannot be determined.

The effect of the measure on local government revenues 

cannot be determined.

Relating to compensation for loss of value of private real 

property resulting from land use regulation; creating new
provisions; amending ORS 93.040 and 197.352; 
appropriating money; and providing that this Act shall be
referred to the people for their approval or rejection.

Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:

SECTION 1. Sections 2, 3 and 5 to 22 of this 2007 Act

are added to and made a part of ORS chapter 195.

SECTION 1a. ORS 197.352 is added to and made a part

of sections 5 to 22 of this 2007 Act.
DEFINITIONS

SECTION 2. As used in this section and sections 3 

and 5 to 22 of this 2007 Act:

(1) “Acquisition date” means the date described in

section 21 of this 2007 Act.

(2) “Claim” means a written demand for compensa-

tion filed under:

(a) ORS 197.352, as in effect immediately before the

effective date of this 2007 Act; or

(b) Sections 12 to 14 of this 2007 Act and 

ORS 197.352, as in effect on and after the effective 
date of this 2007 Act.

(3) “Enacted” means enacted, adopted or amended.
(4) “Fair market value” means the value of property as

determined under section 21b of this 2007 Act.

(5) “Farming practice” has the meaning given that

term in ORS 30.930.

(6) “Federal law” means:
(a) A statute, regulation, order, decree or policy

enacted by a federal entity or by a state entity acting
under authority delegated by the federal government;
(b) A requirement contained in a plan or rule enacted

by a compact entity; or

(c) A requirement contained in a permit issued by a

federal or state agency pursuant to a federal statute or
regulation.

(7) “File” means to submit a document to a public

entity.

(8) “Forest practice” has the meaning given that term

in ORS 527.620.

(9) “Ground water restricted area” means an area 

designated as a critical ground water area or as a
ground water limited area by the Water Resources
Department or Water Resources Commission before the
effective date of this 2007 Act.

(10) “High-value farmland” means:
(a) High-value farmland as described in ORS 215.710

that is land in an exclusive farm use zone or a mixed
farm and forest zone, except that the dates specified in
ORS 215.710 (2), (4) and (6) are the effective date of this
2007 Act.

(b) Land west of U.S. Highway 101 that is composed
predominantly of the following soils in Class III or IV or
composed predominantly of a combination of the soils
described in ORS 215.710 (1) and the following soils:

(A) Subclassification IIIw, specifically Ettersburg Silt

Loam and Croftland Silty Clay Loam;

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
7 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49

(B) Subclassification IIIe, specifically Klooqueth Silty

Clay Loam and Winchuck Silt Loam; and

(C) Subclassification IVw, specifically Huffling Silty

Clay Loam.

(13) “Just compensation” means:
(a) Relief under sections 5 to 11 of this 2007 Act 

for land use regulations enacted on or before 
January 1, 2007; and

(c) Land that is in an exclusive farm use zone or a
mixed farm and forest zone and that on the date of
adjournment sine die of the 2007 regular session of the
Seventy-fourth Legislative Assembly is:

(A) Within the place of use for a permit, certificate or
decree for the use of water for irrigation issued by the
Water Resources Department;

(B) Within the boundaries of a district, as defined in

ORS 540.505; or

(C) Within the boundaries of a diking district formed

under ORS chapter 551.

(d) Land that contains not less than five acres planted

in wine grapes.

(e) Land that is in an exclusive farm use zone and that

is at an elevation between 200 and 1,000 feet above
mean sea level, with an aspect between 67.5 and 292.5
degrees and a slope between zero and 15 percent, and
that is located within:

(A) The Southern Oregon viticultural area as described

in 27 C.F.R. 9.179;

(B) The Umpqua Valley viticultural area as described 

in 27 C.F.R. 9.89; or

(C) The Willamette Valley viticultural area as

described in 27 C.F.R. 9.90.

(f) Land that is in an exclusive farm use zone and that

is no more than 3,000 feet above mean sea level, with an
aspect between 67.5 and 292.5 degrees and a slope
between zero and 15 percent, and that is located within:

(A) The portion of the Columbia Gorge viticultural
area as described in 27 C.F.R. 9.178 that is within the
State of Oregon;

(B) The Rogue Valley viticultural area as described in

27 C.F.R. 9.132;

(C) The portion of the Columbia Valley viticultural
area as described in 27 C.F.R. 9.74 that is within the
State of Oregon;

(D) The portion of the Walla Walla Valley viticultural

area as described in 27 C.F.R. 9.91 that is within the
State of Oregon; or

(E) The portion of the Snake River Valley viticultural
area as described in 27 C.F.R. 9.208 that is within the
State of Oregon.

(11) “High-value forestland” means land:
(a) That is in a forest zone or a mixed farm and forest
zone, that is located in western Oregon and composed
predominantly of soils capable of producing more than
120 cubic feet per acre per year of wood fiber and that is
capable of producing more than 5,000 cubic feet per
year of commercial tree species; or

(b) That is in a forest zone or a mixed farm and forest
zone, that is located in eastern Oregon and composed
predominantly of soils capable of producing more than
85 cubic feet per acre per year of wood fiber and that is
capable of producing more than 4,000 cubic feet per
year of commercial tree species.

(12) “Home site approval” means approval of the 

subdivision or partition of property or approval of the
establishment of a dwelling on property.

(b) Relief under sections 12 to 14 of this 2007 Act for

land use regulations enacted after January 1, 2007.

(14) “Land use regulation” means:
(a) A statute that establishes a minimum lot or parcel

size;

(b) A provision in ORS 227.030 to 227.300, 227.350,

227.400, 227.450 or 227.500 or in ORS chapter 215 that
restricts the residential use of private real property;

(c) A provision of a city comprehensive plan, zoning

ordinance or land division ordinance that restricts 
the residential use of private real property zoned for 
residential use;

(d) A provision of a county comprehensive plan, 

zoning ordinance or land division ordinance that
restricts the residential use of private real property;

(e) A provision of the Oregon Forest Practices Act or

an administrative rule of the State Board of Forestry
that regulates a forest practice and that implements the
Oregon Forest Practices Act;

(f) ORS 561.191, a provision of ORS 568.900 to

568.933 or an administrative rule of the State
Department of Agriculture that implements 
ORS 561.191 or 568.900 to 568.933;

(g) An administrative rule or goal of the Land
Conservation and Development Commission; or
(h) A provision of a Metro functional plan that

restricts the residential use of private real property.

(15) “Measure 37 permit” means a final decision by

Metro, a city or a county to authorize the development,
subdivision or partition or other use of property 
pursuant to a waiver.

(16) “Owner” means:
(a) The owner of fee title to the property as shown in

the deed records of the county where the property is
located;

(b) The purchaser under a land sale contract, if there is

a recorded land sale contract in force for the property;
or

(c) If the property is owned by the trustee of a 

revocable trust, the settlor of a revocable trust, except
that when the trust becomes irrevocable only the
trustee is the owner.

(17) “Property” means the private real property

described in a claim and contiguous private real 
property that is owned by the same owner, whether or
not the contiguous property is described in another
claim, and that is not property owned by the federal
government, an Indian tribe or a public body, as defined
in ORS 192.410.

(18) “Protection of public health and safety” means 

a law, rule, ordinance, order, policy, permit or other 
governmental authorization that restricts a use of 
property in order to reduce the risk or consequence of
fire, earthquake, landslide, flood, storm, pollution, 
disease, crime or other natural or human disaster or
threat to persons or property including, but not limited
to, building and fire codes, health and sanitation 
regulations, solid or hazardous waste regulations and
pollution control regulations.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
8 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49

(19) “Public entity” means the state, Metro, a county

or a city.

(20) “Urban growth boundary” has the meaning given

that term in ORS 195.060.

(21) “Waive” or “waiver” means an action or decision
of a public entity to modify, remove or not apply one or
more land use regulations under sections 5 to 22 of this
2007 Act or ORS 197.352, as in effect immediately
before the effective date of this 2007 Act, to allow the
owner to use property for a use permitted when the
owner acquired the property.

(22) “Zoned for residential use” means zoning that

has as its primary purpose single-family residential use.

LEGISLATIVE POLICY

ON FAIRNESS TO PROPERTY OWNERS

SECTION 3. (1) The Legislative Assembly finds that:
(a) In some situations, land use regulations unfairly

burden particular property owners.

(b) To address these situations, it is necessary to
amend Oregon’s land use statutes to provide just 
compensation for unfair burdens caused by land use
regulations.

(2) The purpose of sections 5 to 22 of this 2007 Act
and the amendments to Ballot Measure 37 (2004) is to
modify Ballot Measure 37 (2004) to ensure that Oregon
law provides just compensation for unfair burdens
while retaining Oregon’s protections for farm and forest
uses and the state’s water resources.

BALLOT MEASURE 37

SECTION 4. ORS 197.352 is amended to read:
197.352. [The following provisions are added to and made a

part of ORS chapter 197:]

(1) If a public entity enacts [or enforces a new land use 

regulation or enforces a land use regulation enacted prior to
December 2, 2004, that restricts] one or more land use 
regulations that restrict the residential use of private real
property or [any interest therein] a farming or forest 
practice and [has the effect of reducing] that reduce the fair
market value of the property, [or any interest therein,] then the
owner of the property shall be [paid just compensation] 
entitled to just compensation from the public entity 
that enacted the land use regulation or regulations as
provided in sections 12 to 14 of this 2007 Act.

(2) Just compensation under sections 12 to 14 of this

2007 Act shall be [equal to] based on the reduction in the fair
market value of the [affected] property [interest] resulting from
[enactment or enforcement of] the land use regulation [as of
the date the owner makes written demand for compensation
under this section].

(3) Subsection (1) of this section shall not apply to land use

regulations that were enacted prior to the claimant’s
acquisition date or to land use regulations:

[(A)] (a) Restricting or prohibiting activities commonly and

historically recognized as public nuisances under common
law[. This subsection shall be construed narrowly in favor of a
finding of compensation under this section];

[(B)] (b) Restricting or prohibiting activities for the protection

of public health and safety[, such as fire and building codes,
health and sanitation regulations, solid or hazardous waste 
regulations, and pollution control regulations];

[(C)] (c) To the extent the land use regulation is required to

comply with federal law; or

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
9 | State Measures

[(D)] (d) Restricting or prohibiting the use of a property for

the purpose of selling pornography or performing nude 
dancing. [Nothing in this subsection, however, is intended to
affect or alter rights provided by the Oregon or United States
Constitutions; or]

[(E) Enacted prior to the date of acquisition of the property by

the owner or a family member of the owner who owned the
subject property prior to acquisition or inheritance by the
owner, whichever occurred first.]

[(4) Just compensation under subsection (1) of this section

shall be due the owner of the property if the land use regulation
continues to be enforced against the property 180 days after the
owner of the property makes written demand for compensation
under this section to the public entity enacting or enforcing the
land use regulation.]

[(5) For claims arising from land use regulations enacted

prior to December 2, 2004, written demand for compensation
under subsection (4) shall be made within two years of
December 2, 2004, or the date the public entity applies the land
use regulation as an approval criteria to an application 
submitted by the owner of the property, whichever is later. 
For claims arising from land use regulations enacted after
December 2, 2004, written demand for compensation under
subsection (4) shall be made within two years of the enactment
of the land use regulation, or the date the owner of the property
submits a land use application in which the land use regulation
is an approval criteria, whichever is later.]

[(6) If a land use regulation continues to apply to the 

subject property more than 180 days after the present owner 
of the property has made written demand for compensation
under this section, the present owner of the property, or any
interest therein, shall have a cause of action for compensation
under this section in the circuit court in which the real 
property is located, and the present owner of the real property
shall be entitled to reasonable attorney fees, expenses, costs,
and other disbursements reasonably incurred to collect the
compensation.]

(4)(a) Subsection (3)(a) of this section shall be 

construed narrowly in favor of granting just compensa-
tion under this section. Nothing in subsection (3) of 
this section is intended to affect or alter rights provided
by the Oregon or United States Constitution.

(b) Subsection (3)(b) of this section does not apply to

any farming or forest practice regulation that is enacted
after January 1, 2007, unless the primary purpose of the
regulation is the protection of human health and safety.

(c) Subsection (3)(c) of this section does not apply to

any farming or forest practice regulation that is enacted
after January 1, 2007, unless the public entity enacting
the regulation has no discretion under federal law to
decline to enact the regulation.

[(7)] (5) A [metropolitan service district, city, or county, or

state agency] public entity may adopt or apply procedures for
the processing of claims under [this section, but in no event
shall these procedures act as a prerequisite to the filing of a
compensation claim under subsection (6) of this section, nor
shall the failure of an owner of property to file an application for
a land use permit with the local government serve as grounds
for dismissal, abatement, or delay of a compensation claim
under subsection (6) of this section] sections 12 to 24 of this
2007 Act.

[(8)] (6) [Notwithstanding any other state statute or the 

availability of funds under subsection (10) of this section, in lieu
of payment of just compensation under this section, the 
governing body responsible for enacting] The public entity
that enacted the land use regulation [may modify, remove, or
not to apply the land use regulation or land use regulations to
allow the owner to use the property for a use permitted at the
time the owner acquired the property] that gives rise to a

continued  

Measure 49

claim under subsection (1) of this section shall provide
just compensation as required under sections 12 to 24
of this 2007 Act.

[(9)] (7) A decision by a [governing body under this section

shall not be considered a] public entity that an owner 
qualifies for just compensation under sections 5 to 22
of this 2007 Act and a decision by a public entity on the
nature and extent of that compensation are not land use
[decision as defined in ORS 197.015 (11)] decisions.

[(10) Claims made under this section shall be paid from
funds, if any, specifically allocated by the legislature, city,
county, or metropolitan service district for payment of claims
under this section. Notwithstanding the availability of funds
under this subsection, a metropolitan service district, city,
county, or state agency shall have discretion to use available
funds to pay claims or to modify, remove, or not apply a land
use regulation or land use regulations pursuant to subsection
(6) of this section. If a claim has not been paid within two years
from the date on which it accrues, the owner shall be allowed to
use the property as permitted at the time the owner acquired
the property.]

[(11) Definitions - for purposes of this section:]
[(A) “Family member” shall include the wife, husband, son,

daughter, mother, father, brother, brother-in-law, sister, 
sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent, stepchild,
grandparent, or grandchild of the owner of the property, an
estate of any of the foregoing family members, or a legal entity
owned by any one or combination of these family members or
the owner of the property.]

[(B) “Land use regulation” shall include:]
[(i) Any statute regulating the use of land or any interest

therein;]

[(ii) Administrative rules and goals of the Land Conservation

and Development Commission;]

[(iii) Local government comprehensive plans, zoning 

ordinances, land division ordinances, and transportation 
ordinances;]

[(iv) Metropolitan service district regional framework plans,

functional plans, planning goals and objectives; and]

[(v) Statutes and administrative rules regulating farming and

forest practices.]

[(C) “Owner” is the present owner of the property, or any

interest therein.]

[(D) “Public entity” shall include the state, a metropolitan

service district, a city, or a county.]

[(12)] (8) The [remedy] remedies created by [this section is]

sections 5 to 22 of this 2007 Act are in addition to any
other remedy under the Oregon or United States
[Constitutions] Constitution, and [is] are not intended to
modify or replace any [other] constitutional remedy.

[(13)] (9) If any portion or portions of this section are declared

invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining 
portions of this section shall remain in full force and effect.

BALLOT MEASURE 37 CLAIMS MADE

ON OR BEFORE THE DATE OF ADJOURNMENT

SINE DIE OF THE 2007 REGULAR SESSION

OF THE SEVENTY-FOURTH LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY

(Generally)

SECTION 5. A claimant that filed a claim under 

ORS 197.352 on or before the date of adjournment sine
die of the 2007 regular session of the Seventy-fourth
Legislative Assembly is entitled to just compensation as
provided in:

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
10 | State Measures

(1) Section 6 or 7 of this 2007 Act, at the claimant’s

election, if the property described in the claim is located
entirely outside any urban growth boundary and entirely
outside the boundaries of any city;

(2) Section 9 of this 2007 Act if the property described

in the claim is located, in whole or in part, within an
urban growth boundary; or

(3) A waiver issued before the effective date of this
2007 Act to the extent that the claimant’s use of the
property complies with the waiver and the claimant has
a common law vested right on the effective date of this
2007 Act to complete and continue the use described in
the waiver.

(Claims Relating to Property

Outside Urban Growth Boundaries)

SECTION 6. (1) A claimant that filed a claim under

ORS 197.352 on or before the date of adjournment sine
die of the 2007 regular session of the Seventy-fourth
Legislative Assembly is eligible for three home site
approvals on the property if the requirements of this
section and sections 8 and 11 of this 2007 Act are met.
The procedure for obtaining home site approvals under
this section is set forth in section 8 of this 2007 Act.

(2) The number of lots, parcels or dwellings that may

be approved for property under this section may not
exceed the lesser of:

(a) The number of lots, parcels or dwellings described

in a waiver issued by the state before the effective 
date of this 2007 Act or, if a waiver was not issued, the
number of lots, parcels or dwellings described in the
claim filed with the state; or

(b) Three, except that if there are existing dwellings

on the property or the property contains more than one
lot or parcel, the number of lots, parcels or dwellings
that may be established is reduced so that the combined
number of lots, parcels or dwellings, including existing
lots, parcels or dwellings located on or contained within
the property, does not exceed three.

(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2) of this section, a
claimant that otherwise qualifies for relief under this
section may establish at least one additional lot, parcel
or dwelling on the property. In addition, if the number of
lots, parcels or dwellings described in a waiver issued
by the state before the effective date of this 2007 Act
or, if a waiver was not issued, the number of lots,
parcels or dwellings described in the claim filed with
the state is more than three, the claimant may amend
the claim to reduce the number to no more than three by
filing notice of the amendment with the form required
by section 8 of this 2007 Act.

(4) If a claim was for a use other than a subdivision 

or partition of property, or other than approval for
establishing a dwelling on the property, the claimant
may amend the claim to seek one or more home site
approvals under this section. A person amending a
claim under this subsection may not make a claim under
section 7 of this 2007 Act.

(5) If multiple claims were filed for the same property,

the number of lots, parcels or dwellings that may be
established for purposes of subsection (2)(a) of this 
section is the number of lots, parcels or dwellings in the
most recent waiver issued by the state before the 
effective date of this 2007 Act or, if a waiver was not
issued, the most recent claim filed with the state, but
not more than three in any case.

continued  

Measure 49

(6) To qualify for a home site approval under this 
section, the claimant must have filed a claim for the
property with both the state and the county in which the
property is located. In addition, regardless of whether a
waiver was issued by the state or the county before the
effective date of this 2007 Act, to qualify for a home
site approval under this section the claimant must
establish that:

(a) The claimant is an owner of the property;
(b) All owners of the property have consented in 

writing to the claim;

(c) The property is located entirely outside any urban
growth boundary and entirely outside the boundaries of
any city;

(d) One or more land use regulations prohibit 

establishing the lot, parcel or dwelling;

(e) The establishment of the lot, parcel or dwelling is

not prohibited by a land use regulation described in 
ORS 197.352 (3); and

(f) On the claimant’s acquisition date, the claimant

lawfully was permitted to establish at least the number
of lots, parcels or dwellings on the property that are
authorized under this section.

(7) If the claim was filed after December 4, 2006, to

issue a home site approval under this section, the
Department of Land Conservation and Development
must verify that the claim was filed in compliance with
the applicable rules of the Land Conservation and
Development Commission and the Oregon Department
of Administrative Services.

(8) Except as provided in section 11 of this 2007 Act,

if the Department of Land Conservation and
Development has issued a final order with a specific
number of home site approvals for a property under this
section, the claimant may seek other governmental
authorizations required by law for the partition or 
subdivision of the property or for the development of
any dwelling authorized, and a land use regulation
enacted by the state or county that has the effect of 
prohibiting the partition or subdivision, or the dwelling,
does not apply to the review of those authorizations.
SECTION 7. (1) A claimant that filed a claim under

ORS 197.352 on or before the date of adjournment sine
die of the 2007 regular session of the Seventy-fourth
Legislative Assembly for property that is not high-value
farmland or high-value forestland and that is not in a
ground water restricted area is eligible for four to 10
home site approvals for the property if the requirements
of this section and sections 8 and 11 of this 2007 Act
are met. The procedure for obtaining home site
approvals under this section is set forth in section 8 of
this 2007 Act.

(2) The number of lots, parcels or dwellings that may
be established on the property under this section may
not exceed the lesser of:

(a) The number of lots, parcels or dwellings described

in a waiver issued by the state before the effective 
date of this 2007 Act or, if a waiver was not issued, the
number of lots, parcels or dwellings described in the
claim filed with the state;

(b) 10, except that if there are existing dwellings on

the property or the property contains more than one lot
or parcel, the number of lots, parcels or dwellings that
may be established is reduced, so that the combined
number of lots, parcels or dwellings, including existing
lots, parcels or dwellings located on or contained within
the property, does not exceed 10; or

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
11 | State Measures

(c) The number of home site approvals with a total

value that represents just compensation for the 
reduction in fair market value caused by the enactment
of one or more land use regulations that were the basis
for the claim, as set forth in subsection (6) of this 
section.

(3) If the number of lots, parcels or dwellings

described in a waiver issued by the state before the
effective date of this 2007 Act or, if a waiver was not
issued, the number of lots, parcels or dwellings
described in the claim filed with the state is more than
10, the claimant may amend the claim to reduce the
number to no more than 10 by filing notice of the
amendment with the form required by section 8 of this
2007 Act.

(4) If multiple claims were filed for the same property,

the number of lots, parcels or dwellings that may be
established for purposes of subsection (2)(a) of this 
section is the number of lots, parcels or dwellings in the
most recent waiver issued by the state before the 
effective date of this 2007 Act or, if a waiver was not
issued, the most recent claim filed with the state, but
not more than 10 in any case.

(5) To qualify for a home site approval under this 
section, the claimant must have filed a claim for the
property with both the state and the county in which the
property is located. In addition, regardless of whether a
waiver was issued by the state or the county before the
effective date of this 2007 Act to qualify for a home site
approval under this section, the claimant must establish
that:

(a) The claimant is an owner of the property;
(b) All owners of the property have consented in 

writing to the claim;

(c) The property is located entirely outside any urban
growth boundary and entirely outside the boundaries of
any city;

(d) One or more land use regulations prohibit 

establishing the lot, parcel or dwelling;

(e) The establishment of the lot, parcel or dwelling is

not prohibited by a land use regulation described in 
ORS 197.352 (3);

(f) On the claimant’s acquisition date, the claimant

lawfully was permitted to establish at least the number
of lots, parcels and dwellings on the property that are
authorized under this section; and

(g) The enactment of one or more land use 

regulations, other than land use regulations described
in ORS 197.352 (3), that are the basis for the claim
caused a reduction in the fair market value of the 
property that is equal to or greater than the fair market
value of the home site approvals that may be 
established on the property under subsection (2) of this
section, with the reduction in fair market value 
measured as set forth in subsection (6) of this section.

(6) The reduction in the fair market value of the 

property caused by the enactment of one or more land
use regulations that were the basis for the claim is equal
to the decrease, if any, in the fair market value of the
property from the date that is one year before the 
enactment of the land use regulation to the date that is
one year after the enactment, plus interest. If the claim
is based on the enactment of more than one land use
regulation enacted on different dates, the reduction in
the fair market value of the property caused by each
regulation shall be determined separately and the 
values added together to calculate the total reduction in

continued  

Measure 49

fair market value. The reduction in fair market value
shall be adjusted by any ad valorem property taxes not
paid as a result of any special assessment of the 
property under ORS 308A.050 to 308A.128, 321.257 to
321.390, 321.700 to 321.754 or 321.805 to 321.855,
plus interest, offset by any severance taxes paid by the
claimant and by any recapture of potential additional
tax liability that the claimant has paid or will pay for the
property if the property is disqualified from special
assessment under ORS 308A.703. Interest shall be 
computed under this subsection using the average 
interest rate for a one-year United States Government
Treasury Bill on December 31 of each year of the period
between the date the land use regulation was enacted
and the date the claim was filed, compounded annually
on January 1 of each year of the period.

(7) For the purposes of subsection (6) of this section, 

a claimant must provide an appraisal showing the fair
market value of the property one year before the 
enactment of the land use regulation that was the basis
for the claim and the fair market value of the property
one year after the enactment. The appraisal also must
show the fair market value of each home site approval
to which the claimant is entitled under section 6 (2) of
this 2007 Act, along with evidence of any ad valorem
property taxes not paid, any severance taxes paid and
any recapture of additional tax liability that the
claimant has paid or will pay for the property if the 
property is disqualified from special assessment under
ORS 308A.703. The actual and reasonable cost of
preparing the claim, including the cost of the appraisal,
not to exceed $5,000, may be added to the calculation
of the reduction in fair market value under subsection
(6) of this section. The appraisal must:

(a) Be prepared by a person certified under ORS chap-

ter 674 or a person registered under ORS chapter 308;

(b) Comply with the Uniform Standards of

Professional Appraisal Practice, as authorized by the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989; and

(c) Expressly determine the highest and best use of
the property at the time the land use regulation was
enacted.

(8) Relief may not be granted under this section if the
highest and best use of the property was not residential
use at the time the land use regulation was enacted.

(9) If the claim was filed after December 4, 2006, to

issue a home site approval under this section, the
Department of Land Conservation and Development
must verify that the claim was filed in compliance with
the applicable rules of the Land Conservation and
Development Commission and the Oregon Department
of Administrative Services.

(10) Except as provided in section 11 of this 2007 Act,

if the Department of Land Conservation and
Development has issued a final order with a specific
number of home site approvals for the property under
this section, the claimant may seek other governmental
authorizations required by law for the subdivision or
partition of the property or for the development of any
dwelling authorized, and a land use regulation enacted
by the state or county that has the effect of prohibiting
the subdivision or partition, or the dwelling, does not
apply to the review of those authorizations.

SECTION 8. (1) No later than 120 days after the 

effective date of this 2007 Act, the Department of Land
Conservation and Development shall send notice to all
the following claimants that filed a claim for property
outside an urban growth boundary:

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
12 | State Measures

(a) A claimant whose claim was denied by the state

before the effective date of this 2007 Act, but who 
may become eligible for just compensation because of
section 21 (2) of this 2007 Act or any other provision of
sections 5 to 22 of this 2007 Act;

(b) A claimant whose claim was approved by the state

before the effective date of this 2007 Act; and

(c) A claimant whose claim has not been approved or

denied by the state before the effective date of this
2007 Act.

(2) The notice required by subsection (1) of this 

section must:

(a) Explain the claimant’s options if the claimant

wishes to subdivide, partition or establish a dwelling on
the property under sections 5 to 22 of this 2007 Act;
(b) Identify any information that the claimant must

file; and

(c) Provide a form for the claimant’s use.
(3) A claimant must choose whether to proceed 

under section 6 or 7 of this 2007 Act by filing the form
provided by the department within 90 days after the
date the department mails the notice and form required
under subsection (1) of this section. In addition, the
claimant must file any information required in the
notice. If the claimant fails to file the form within 90
days after the date the department mails the notice, the
claimant is not entitled to relief under section 6 or 7 of
this 2007 Act.

(4) The department shall review the claims in the
order in which the department receives the forms
required under subsection (3) of this section. In addition
to reviewing the claim, the department shall review the
department’s record on the claim, the form required
under subsection (3) of this section, any new material
from the claimant and any other information required by
sections 5 to 22 of this 2007 Act to ensure that the
requirements of this section and section 6 or 7 of this
2007 Act are met. The department shall provide a copy
of the material submitted by the claimant to the county
where the property is located and consider written 
comments from the county that are timely filed with the
department. If the department determines that the only
land use regulations that restrict the claimant’s use of
the property are regulations that were enacted by the
county, the department shall transfer the claim to the
county where the property is located and the claim shall
be processed by the county in the same manner as 
prescribed by this section for the processing of claims
by the department. The county must consider any 
written comments from the department that are timely
filed with the county.

(5) If the claimant elects to obtain relief under section

7 of this 2007 Act, the claimant must file an appraisal
that establishes the reduction in the fair market value 
of the property as required by section 7 (6) of this 
2007 Act. The actual and reasonable cost of preparing
the claim, including the cost of the appraisal, not to
exceed $5,000, may be added to the calculation of the 
reduction in fair market value under section 7 (6) of this
2007 Act. The appraisal must be filed with the 
department or, if the claim is being processed by the
county, with the county within 180 days after the date
the claimant files the election to obtain relief under 
section 7 of this 2007 Act. A claimant that elects to
obtain relief under section 7 of this 2007 Act may
change that election to obtain relief under section 6 of
this 2007 Act, but only if the claimant provides written
notice of the change on or before the date the appraisal
is filed. If a county is processing the claim, the county

continued  

Measure 49

may impose a fee for the review of a claim under 
section 7 of this 2007 Act in an amount that does not
exceed the actual and reasonable cost of the review.

by Metro, a city or a county before the effective date of
this 2007 Act, to qualify for relief under this section, 
the claimant must establish that:

(6) The department or the county shall review claims

as quickly as possible, consistent with careful review of
the claim. The department shall report to the Joint
Legislative Audit Committee on or before March 31,
2008, concerning the department’s progress and the
counties’ progress in completing review of claims under
sections 6 and 7 of this 2007 Act.

(7) The department’s final order and a county’s final

decision on a claim under section 6 or 7 of this 2007 Act
must either deny the claim or approve the claim. If the
order or decision approves the claim, the order or 
decision must state the number of home site approvals
issued for the property and may contain other terms
that are necessary to ensure that the use of the property
is lawful.

(Claims Relating to Property Within

Urban Growth Boundaries)

SECTION 9. (1) A claimant that filed a claim under

ORS 197.352 on or before the date of adjournment sine
die of the 2007 regular session of the Seventy-fourth
Legislative Assembly for property located, in whole or
in part, within an urban growth boundary may establish
one to 10 single-family dwellings on the portion of the
property located within the urban growth boundary.

(2) The number of single-family dwellings that may be

established on the portion of the property located
within the urban growth boundary under this section
may not exceed the lesser of:

(a) The number of single-family dwellings described in

a waiver issued by Metro, a city or a county before the
effective date of this 2007 Act or, if a waiver was not
issued, the number described in the claim filed with
Metro, a city or a county;

(b) 10, except that if there are existing dwellings on

the property, the number of single-family dwellings that
may be established is reduced so that the maximum
number of dwellings, including existing dwellings
located on the property, does not exceed 10; or

(c) The number of single-family dwellings the total
value of which represents just compensation for the
reduction in fair market value caused by the enactment
of one or more land use regulations that were the 
basis for the claim, as set forth in subsection (6) of this
section.

(3) If the number of single-family dwellings described
in a waiver issued by Metro, a city or a county before the
effective date of this 2007 Act or, if a waiver was not
issued, the number described in the claim filed with
Metro, a city or a county is more than 10, the claimant
may amend the claim to reduce the number to no more
than 10 by filing notice of the amendment with the
information required by section 10 of this 2007 Act.

(4) If multiple claims were filed for the same property,

the number of single-family dwellings that may be
established for purposes of subsection (2)(a) of this 
section is the number in the most recent waiver issued
by Metro, a city or a county before the effective date of
this 2007 Act or, if a waiver was not issued, the most
recent claim filed with Metro, a city or a county, but not
more than 10 in any case.

(5) To qualify for the relief provided by this section,
the claimant must have filed a claim for the property
with the city or county in which the property is located.
In addition, regardless of whether a waiver was issued

(a) The claimant is an owner of the property;
(b) All owners of the property have consented in 

writing to the claim;

(c) The property is located, in whole or in part, within

an urban growth boundary;

(d) On the claimant’s acquisition date, the claimant

lawfully was permitted to establish at least the number
of dwellings on the property that are authorized under
this section;

(e) The property is zoned for residential use;
(f) One or more land use regulations prohibit 

establishing the single-family dwellings;

(g) The establishment of the single-family dwellings 
is not prohibited by a land use regulation described in
ORS 197.352 (3);

(h) The land use regulation described in paragraph (f)

of this subsection was enacted after the date the 
property, or any portion of the property, was brought
into the urban growth boundary;

(i) If the property is located within the boundaries of
Metro, the land use regulation that is the basis for the
claim was enacted after the date the property was
included within the boundaries of Metro;

(j) If the property is located within a city, the land use

regulation that is the basis for the claim was enacted
after the date the property was annexed to the city; and

(k) The enactment of one or more land use 

regulations, other than land use regulations described
in ORS 197.352 (3), that are the basis of the claim
caused a reduction in the fair market value of the 
property, as determined under subsection (6) of this 
section, that is equal to or greater than the fair market
value of the single-family dwellings that may be 
established on the property under subsection (2) of this
section.

(6) The reduction in the fair market value of the 

property caused by the enactment of one or more land
use regulations that were the basis for the claim is 
equal to the decrease, if any, in the fair market value of
the property from the date that is one year before the
enactment of the land use regulation to the date that is
one year after the enactment, plus interest. If the claim
is based on the enactment of more than one land use
regulation enacted on different dates, the reduction in
the fair market value of the property caused by each
regulation shall be determined separately and the 
values added together to calculate the total reduction in
fair market value. The reduction in fair market value
shall be adjusted by any ad valorem property taxes not
paid as a result of any special assessment of the 
property under ORS 308A.050 to 308A.128, 321.257 to
321.390, 321.700 to 321.754 or 321.805 to 321.855,
plus interest, offset by any severance taxes paid by the
claimant and by any recapture of potential additional
tax liability that the claimant has paid or will pay for 
the property if the property is disqualified from special
assessment under ORS 308A.703. Interest shall be 
computed under this subsection using the average 
interest rate for a one-year United States Government
Treasury Bill on December 31 of each year of the period
between the date the land use regulation was enacted
and the date the claim was filed, compounded annually
on January 1 of each year of the period.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
13 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49

(7) For the purposes of subsection (6) of this section, 

a claimant must provide an appraisal showing the fair
market value of the property one year before the 
enactment of the land use regulation that was the basis
for the claim and the fair market value of the property
one year after the enactment. The appraisal also 
must show the fair market value of each single-family
dwelling to which the claimant is entitled under 
subsection (2) of this section, along with evidence of
any ad valorem property taxes not paid, any severance
taxes paid and any recapture of additional tax liability
that the owner has paid or will pay for the property if
the property is disqualified from special assessment
under ORS 308A.703. The actual and reasonable cost of
preparing the claim, including the cost of the appraisal,
not to exceed $5,000, may be added to the calculation
of the reduction in fair market value under section 7 (6)
of this 2007 Act. The appraisal must:

(a) Be prepared by a person certified under ORS chap-

ter 674 or a person registered under ORS chapter 308;

(b) Comply with the Uniform Standards of

Professional Appraisal Practice, as authorized by the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989; and

(c) Expressly determine the highest and best use of
the property at the time the land use regulation was
enacted.

(8) Relief may not be granted under this section if the
highest and best use of the property was not residential
use at the time the land use regulation was enacted.

(9) When Metro, a city or a county has issued a final

decision authorizing one or more single-family
dwellings under this section on the portion of the 
property located within the urban growth boundary, the
claimant may seek other governmental authorizations
required by law for that use, and a land use regulation
enacted by a public entity that has the effect of 
prohibiting the use does not apply to the review of those
authorizations, except as provided in section 11 of this
2007 Act. If Metro is reviewing a claim for a property,
and a city or a county is reviewing a claim for the same
property, Metro and the city or county shall coordinate
the review and decisions and may:

(a) Provide that one of the public entities be 

principally responsible for the review; and

(b) Provide that the decision of each of the public 

entities is contingent on the decision of the other public
entity.

(10) The only types of land use that are authorized 
by this section are the subdivision or partition of land
for one or more single-family dwellings, or the 
establishment of one or more single-family dwellings 
on land on which the dwellings would not otherwise be
allowed.

SECTION 10. (1) If Metro, a city or a county issued a

waiver before the effective date of this 2007 Act for
property located, in whole or in part, within an urban
growth boundary, the public entity that issued the
waiver must review the claim, the record on the claim
and the waiver to determine whether the claimant is
entitled to relief under section 9 of this 2007 Act. If the
public entity that issued the waiver lacks information
needed to determine whether the claimant is entitled to
relief, the public entity shall issue a written request to
the claimant for the required information. The claimant
must file the required information within 90 days after
receiving the request. If the claimant does not file the
information, the public entity shall review the claim
based on the information that is available. The public

entity shall complete a tentative review no later than
240 days after the effective date of this 2007 Act. 
The public entity shall provide written notice to the
claimant, the Department of Land Conservation and
Development and any other person entitled to notice 
of the tentative determination as to whether the
claimant qualifies for relief under section 9 of this 
2007 Act and, if so, the specific number of single-family
dwellings that the public entity proposes to authorize.
The notice must state that the recipient has 15 days to
submit evidence or arguments in response to the 
tentative determination, after which the public entity
shall make a final determination. A public entity shall
make the final determination under this subsection
within 300 days after the effective date of this 
2007 Act.

(2) If Metro, a city or a county has not made a final

decision before the effective date of this 2007 Act on a
claim filed for property located, in whole or in part,
within an urban growth boundary, the public entity with
which the claim was filed shall send notice to the
claimant within 90 days after the effective date of this
2007 Act. The notice must:

(a) Explain that the claimant is entitled to seek relief

under section 9 of this 2007 Act;

(b) Identify the information that the claimant must

file; and

(c) Provide a form for the claimant’s use.
(3) Within 120 days after the date the public entity

mails notice under subsection (2) of this section, a
claimant must notify the public entity if the claimant
intends to continue the claim and must file the 
information required in the notice. If the claimant fails
to file the notice and required information with the 
public entity within 120 days after the date the public
entity mails the notice, the claimant is not entitled to
relief under section 9 of this 2007 Act.

(4) A public entity that receives a notice from a
claimant under subsection (3) of this section shall
review the claim, the record on the claim, the notice
received from the claimant and the information required
under subsection (3) of this section to determine
whether the claim demonstrates that the requirements
of section 9 of this 2007 Act are satisfied. The public
entity shall complete a tentative review no later than
120 days after receipt of the notice from the claimant
and shall provide written notice to the claimant, the
department and any other person entitled to notice of
the tentative determination as to whether the claimant
qualifies for relief under section 9 of this 2007 Act and,
if so, the specific number of single-family dwellings 
that the public entity proposes to authorize. The notice
must state that the recipient has 15 days to submit 
evidence or arguments in response to the tentative
determination, after which the public entity shall make
a final determination. A public entity shall make the
final determination under this subsection within 180
days after receipt of the notice from the claimant.

(5) If a claimant filed a claim that is subject to this 
section after December 4, 2006, the claim must have
included a copy of a final land use decision by the city or
county with land use jurisdiction over the property that
denied an application by the claimant for the residential
use described in the claim. If the claim was filed after
December 4, 2006, and did not include a final land use
decision denying the residential use described in the
claim, the claimant is not entitled to relief under 
section 9 of this 2007 Act.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
14 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49

(Development Standards; Transferability)

SECTION 11. (1) A subdivision or partition of property,

or the establishment of a dwelling on property, 
authorized under sections 5 to 11 of this 2007 Act must
comply with all applicable standards governing the 
siting or development of the dwelling, lot or parcel
including, but not limited to, the location, design, 
construction or size of the dwelling, lot or parcel.
However, the standards must not be applied in a manner
that has the effect of prohibiting the establishment of
the dwelling, lot or parcel authorized under sections 5
to 11 of this 2007 Act unless the standards are reason-
ably necessary to avoid or abate a nuisance, to protect
public health or safety or to carry out federal law.

(2) Before beginning construction of any dwelling

authorized under section 6 or 7 of this 2007 Act, 
the owner must comply with the requirements of 
ORS 215.293 if the property is in an exclusive farm use
zone, a forest zone or a mixed farm and forest zone.

(3)(a) A city or county may approve the creation of a

lot or parcel to contain a dwelling authorized under 
sections 5 to 11 of this 2007 Act. However, a new lot or
parcel located in an exclusive farm use zone, a forest
zone or a mixed farm and forest zone may not exceed:

(A) Two acres if the lot or parcel is located on 

high-value farmland, on high-value forestland or on 
land within a ground water restricted area; or

(B) Five acres if the lot or parcel is not located on 
high-value farmland, on high-value forestland or on 
land within a ground water restricted area.

(b) If the property is in an exclusive farm use zone, a

forest zone or a mixed farm and forest zone, the new
lots or parcels created must be clustered so as to 
maximize suitability of the remnant lot or parcel for
farm or forest use.

(4) If an owner is authorized to subdivide or partition

more than one property, or to establish dwellings on
more than one property, under sections 5 to 11 of this
2007 Act and the properties are in an exclusive farm use
zone, a forest zone or a mixed farm and forest zone, the
owner may cluster some or all of the dwellings, lots or
parcels on one of the properties if that property is less
suitable than the other properties for farm or forest use.
If one of the properties is zoned for residential use, the
owner may cluster some or all of the dwellings, lots or
parcels that would have been located in an exclusive
farm use zone, a forest zone or a mixed farm and forest
zone on the property zoned for residential use.

(5) An owner is not eligible for more than 20 home site

approvals under sections 5 to 11 of this 2007 Act,
regardless of how many properties that person owns or
how many claims that person has filed.

(6) An authorization to partition or subdivide the 
property, or to establish dwellings on the property,
granted under section 6, 7 or 9 of this 2007 Act runs
with the property and may be either transferred with the
property or encumbered by another person without
affecting the authorization. There is no time limit on
when an authorization granted under section 6, 7 or 9 of
this 2007 Act must be carried out, except that once the
owner who obtained the authorization conveys the
property to a person other than the owner’s spouse or
the trustee of a revocable trust in which the owner is
the settlor, the subsequent owner of the property must
create the lots or parcels and establish the dwellings
authorized by a waiver under section 6, 7 or 9 of this
2007 Act within 10 years of the conveyance. In addition:

(a) A lot or parcel lawfully created based on an 

authorization under section 6, 7 or 9 of this 2007 Act
remains a discrete lot or parcel, unless the lot or parcel
lines are vacated or the lot or parcel is further divided,
as provided by law; and

(b) A dwelling or other residential use of the property
based on an authorization under section 6, 7 or 9 of this
2007 Act is a permitted use and may be established or
continued by the claimant or a subsequent owner,
except that once the claimant conveys the property to a
person other than the claimant’s spouse or the trustee
of a revocable trust in which the claimant is the settlor,
the subsequent owner must establish the dwellings or
other residential use authorized under section 6, 7 or 9
of this 2007 Act within 10 years of the conveyance.

(7) When relief has been claimed under sections 5 to

11 of this 2007 Act:

(a) Additional relief is not due; and
(b) An additional claim may not be filed, 

compensation is not due and a waiver may not be 
issued with regard to the property under sections 5 to
22 of this 2007 Act or ORS 197.352 as in effect 
immediately before the effective date of this 2007 Act,
except with respect to a land use regulation enacted
after January 1, 2007.

(8) A person that is eligible to be a holder as defined 

in ORS 271.715 may acquire the rights to carry out 
a use of land authorized under sections 5 to 11 of this
2007 Act from a willing seller in the manner provided by
ORS 271.715 to 271.795. Metro, cities and counties may
enter into cooperative agreements under ORS chapter
195 to establish a system for the purchase and sale of
severable development interests as described in 
ORS 94.531. A system established under this subsection
may provide for the transfer of severable development
interests between the jurisdictions of the public entities
that are parties to the agreement for the purpose of
allowing development to occur in a location that is 
different from the location in which the development
interest arises.

(9) If a claimant is an individual, the entitlement to

prosecute the claim under section 6, 7 or 9 of this 
2007 Act and an authorization to use the property 
provided by a waiver under section 6, 7 or 9 of this 
2007 Act:

(a) Is not affected by the death of the claimant if the

death occurs on or after the effective date of this 
2007 Act; and

(b) Passes to the person that acquires the property by

devise or by operation of law.

BALLOT MEASURE 37 CLAIMS MADE

AFTER THE DATE OF ADJOURNMENT SINE DIE

OF THE 2007 REGULAR SESSION OF THE

SEVENTY-FOURTH LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY

(Generally)

SECTION 12. (1) A person may file a claim for just

compensation under sections 12 to 14 of this 2007 Act
and ORS 197.352 after the date of adjournment sine die
of the 2007 regular session of the Seventy-fourth
Legislative Assembly if:

(a) The person is an owner of the property and all 

owners of the property have consented in writing to the
filing of the claim;

(b) The person’s desired use of the property is a 

residential use or a farming or forest practice;

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
15 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49

(c) The person’s desired use of the property is

restricted by one or more land use regulations enacted
after January 1, 2007; and

(d) The enactment of one or more land use regulations

after January 1, 2007, other than land use regulations
described in ORS 197.352 (3), has reduced the fair 
market value of the property.

(2) For purposes of subsection (1) of this section, the

reduction in the fair market value of the property
caused by the enactment of one or more land use 
regulations that are the basis for the claim is equal to
the decrease, if any, in the fair market value of the 
property from the date that is one year before the 
enactment of the land use regulation to the date that is
one year after the enactment, plus interest. If the claim
is based on the enactment of more than one land use
regulation enacted on different dates, the reduction in
the fair market value of the property caused by each
regulation shall be determined separately and the 
values added together to calculate the total reduction in
fair market value. Interest shall be computed under this
subsection using the average interest rate for a one-year
United States Government Treasury Bill on December 31
of each year of the period between the date the land use
regulation was enacted and the date the claim was filed,
compounded annually on January 1 of each year of the
period. A claimant must provide an appraisal showing
the fair market value of the property one year before the
enactment of the land use regulation and the fair 
market value of the property one year after the 
enactment. The actual and reasonable cost of preparing
the claim, including the cost of the appraisal, not to
exceed $5,000, may be added to the calculation of the
reduction in fair market value under this subsection.
The appraisal must:

(a) Be prepared by a person certified under ORS chap-

ter 674 or a person registered under ORS chapter 308;

(b) Comply with the Uniform Standards of

Professional Appraisal Practice, as authorized by the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and
Enforcement Act of 1989; and

(c) Expressly determine the highest and best use of
the property at the time the land use regulation was
enacted.

(3) Relief may not be granted under this section if the
highest and best use of the property at the time the land
use regulation was enacted was not the use that was
restricted by the land use regulation.

(4) If the claimant establishes that the requirements of

subsection (1) of this section are satisfied and the land
use regulation was enacted by Metro, a city or a county,
the public entity must either:

(a) Compensate the claimant for the reduction in the

fair market value of the property; or

(b) Authorize the claimant to use the property without

application of the land use regulation to the extent 
necessary to offset the reduction in the fair market
value of the property.

(5) If the claimant establishes that the requirements 

of subsection (1) of this section are satisfied and the
land use regulation was enacted by state government,
as defined in ORS 174.111, the state agency that is
responsible for administering the statute, statewide
land use planning goal or rule, or the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services if there is no
state agency responsible for administering the statute,
goal or rule, must:

(a) Compensate the claimant for the reduction in the

fair market value of the property; or

(b) Authorize the claimant to use the property without

application of the land use regulation to the extent 
necessary to offset the reduction in the fair market
value of the property.

(6) A use authorized by this section has the legal 
status of a lawful nonconforming use in the same 
manner as provided by ORS 215.130. The claimant may
carry out a use authorized by a public entity under this
section except that a public entity may waive only land
use regulations that were enacted by the public entity.
When a use authorized by this section is lawfully 
established, the use may be continued lawfully in the
same manner as provided by ORS 215.130.

(Procedures for Actions on New Claims)
SECTION 13. (1) A person filing a claim under 

section 12 of this 2007 Act shall file the claim in the
manner provided by this section. If the property for
which the claim is filed has more than one owner, the
claim must be signed by all the owners or the claim
must include a signed statement of consent from each
owner. Only one claim for each property may be filed 
for each land use regulation.

(2) A claim filed under section 12 of this 2007 Act
must be filed with the public entity that enacted the
land use regulation that is the basis for the claim.

(3) Metro, cities, counties and the Department of Land

Conservation and Development may impose a fee for
the review of a claim filed under section 12 of this 
2007 Act in an amount not to exceed the actual and 
reasonable cost of reviewing the claim.

(4) A person must file a claim under section 12 of this

2007 Act within five years after the date the land use
regulation was enacted.

(5) A public entity that receives a claim filed under

section 12 of this 2007 Act must issue a final determina-
tion on the claim within 180 days after the date the
claim is complete, as described in subsection (9) of this
section.

(6) If a claim under section 12 of this 2007 Act is filed
with state government, as defined in ORS 174.111, the
claim must be filed with the department. If the claim is
filed with Metro, a city or a county, the claim must be
filed with the chief administrative office of the public
entity, or with an individual designated by ordinance,
resolution or order of the public entity.

(7) A claim filed under section 12 of this 2007 Act

must be in writing and must include:

(a) The name and address of each owner;
(b) The address, if any, and tax lot number, township,

range and section of the property;

(c) Evidence of the acquisition date of the claimant,

including the instrument conveying the property to the
claimant and a report from a title company identifying
the person in which title is vested and the claimant’s
acquisition date and describing exceptions and 
encumbrances to title that are of record;

(d) A citation to the land use regulation that the

claimant believes is restricting the claimant’s desired
use of the property that is adequate to allow the public
entity to identify the specific land use regulation that is
the basis for the claim;

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
16 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49

(e) A description of the specific use of the property

that the claimant desires to carry out but cannot
because of the land use regulation; and

(c) That judicial review is available only for issues that
are raised with sufficient specificity to afford the public
entity an opportunity to respond.

(f) An appraisal of the property that complies with

section 12 (2) of this 2007 Act.

(8) A claim filed under section 12 of this 2007 Act

must include the fee, if any, imposed by the public
entity with which the claim is filed pursuant to 
subsection (3) of this section.

(9) The public entity shall review a claim filed under
section 12 of this 2007 Act to determine whether the
claim complies with the requirements of sections 12 to
14 of this 2007 Act. If the claim is incomplete, the 
public entity shall notify the claimant in writing of the
information or fee that is missing within 60 days after
receiving the claim and allow the claimant to submit 
the missing information or fee. The claim is complete
when the public entity receives any fee required by 
subsection (8) of this section and:

(a) The missing information;
(b) Part of the missing information and written notice

from the claimant that the remainder of the missing
information will not be provided; or

(c) Written notice from the claimant that none of the

missing information will be provided.

(10) If a public entity does not notify a claimant within

60 days after a claim is filed under section 12 of this
2007 Act that information or the fee is missing from the
claim, the claim is deemed complete when filed.

(11) A claim filed under section 12 of this 2007 Act is

deemed withdrawn if the public entity gives notice to
the claimant under subsection (9) of this section and the
claimant does not comply with the requirements of 
subsection (9) of this section.

SECTION 14. (1) A public entity that receives a 
complete claim as described in section 13 of this 
2007 Act shall provide notice of the claim at least 
30 days before a public hearing on the claim or, if there
will not be a public hearing, at least 30 days before the
deadline for submission of written comments, to:

(a) All owners identified in the claim;
(b) All persons described in ORS 197.763 (2);
(c) The Department of Land Conservation and

Development, unless the claim was filed with the
department;

(d) Metro, if the property is located within the urban

growth boundary of Metro;

(e) The county in which the property is located, unless

the claim was filed with the county; and

(f) The city, if the property is located within the urban
growth boundary or adopted urban planning area of the
city.

(2) The notice required under subsection (1) of this

section must describe the claim and state:

(a) Whether a public hearing will be held on the claim,

the date, time and location of the hearing, if any, and
the final date for submission of written evidence and
arguments relating to the claim;

(b) That judicial review of the final determination of 

a public entity on the claim is limited to the written 
evidence and arguments submitted to the public entity;
and

(3) Except as provided in subsection (4) of this 

section, written evidence and arguments in proceedings
on the claim must be submitted to the public entity not
later than:

(a) The close of the final public hearing on the claim;

or

(b) If a public hearing is not held, the date that is 
specified by the public entity in the notice required
under subsection (1) of this section.

(4) The claimant may request additional time to 

submit written evidence and arguments in response to
testimony or submittals. The request must be made
before the close of testimony or the deadline for 
submission of written evidence and arguments.

(5) A public entity shall make the record on review of

a claim, including any staff reports, available to the 
public before the close of the record as described in 
subsections (3) and (4) of this section.

(6) A public entity shall mail a copy of the final 

determination to the claimant and to any person who
submitted written evidence or arguments before the
close of the record. The public entity shall forward to
the county, and the county shall record, a memorandum
of the final determination in the deed records of the
county in which the property is located.

SECTION 15. In addition to any other notice required

by law, a county must give notice of a Measure 37 
permit for property located entirely outside an urban
growth boundary to:

(1) The county assessor for the county in which the

property is located;

(2) A district or municipality that supplies water for

domestic, municipal or irrigation uses and has a place of
use or well located within one-half mile of the property;
and

(3) The Department of Land Conservation and

Development, the State Department of Agriculture, the
Water Resources Department and the State Forestry
Department.

JUDICIAL REVIEW

SECTION 16. (1) A person that is adversely affected by
a final determination of a public entity under sections 5
to 11 or 12 to 14 of this 2007 Act may obtain judicial
review of that determination under ORS 34.010 to
34.100, if the determination is made by Metro, a city or
a county, or under ORS 183.484, if the determination is
one of a state agency. Proceedings for review of a state
agency determination under sections 5 to 11 or 12 to 14
of this 2007 Act must be commenced in the county in
which the affected property is located. Upon motion of
any party to the proceedings, the proceedings may be
transferred to any other county with jurisdiction under
ORS 183.484 in the manner provided by law for change
of venue. A determination by a public entity under 
sections 5 to 11 or 12 to 14 of this 2007 Act is not a land
use decision.

(2) A person is adversely affected under subsection (1)

of this section if the person:

(a) Is an owner of the property that is the subject of

the final determination; or

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
17 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49

(b) Is a person who timely submitted written evidence,

arguments or comments to a public entity concerning
the determination.

(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section,

judicial review of a final determination under sections 5
to 11 or 12 to 14 of this 2007 Act or ORS 197.352 is:

(a) Limited to the evidence in the record of the public

entity at the time of its final determination.

(b) Available only for issues that are raised before the

public entity with sufficient specificity to afford the
public entity an opportunity to respond.

OMBUDSMAN

SECTION 17. (1) The Governor shall appoint an 

individual to serve, at the pleasure of the Governor, as
the Compensation and Conservation Ombudsman.

(2) The ombudsman must be an individual of 

recognized judgment, objectivity and integrity who is
qualified by training and experience to:

(a) Analyze problems of land use planning, real 

property law and real property valuation; and

(b) Facilitate resolution of complex disputes.
SECTION 18. (1) For the purpose of helping to ensure

that a claim is complete, as described in section 13 of
this 2007 Act, the Compensation and Conservation
Ombudsman may review a proposed claim if the review
is requested by a claimant that intends to file a 
claim under sections 12 to 14 of this 2007 Act and 
ORS 197.352.

(2) At the request of the claimant or the public entity

reviewing a claim, the ombudsman may facilitate 
resolution of issues involving a claim under sections 5
to 22 of this 2007 Act.

MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION 19. (1) If an owner submits an application

for a comprehensive plan or zoning amendment, or 
submits an application for an amendment to the Metro
urban growth boundary, and Metro, a city or a county
approves the amendment, the owner is not entitled to
relief under sections 5 to 22 of this 2007 Act with
respect to a land use regulation enacted before the date
the application was filed.

(2) If an owner files a petition to initiate annexation to

a city and the city or boundary commission approves
the petition, the owner is not entitled to relief under
sections 5 to 22 of this 2007 Act with respect to a land
use regulation enacted before the date the petition was
filed.

SECTION 20. An appraiser certified under 

ORS 674.310 or a person registered under ORS chapter
308 may carry out the appraisals required by sections 5
to 22 of this 2007 Act. The Department of Land
Conservation and Development is authorized to retain
persons to review the appraisals.

SECTION 21. (1) Except as provided in this section, a

claimant’s acquisition date is the date the claimant
became the owner of the property as shown in the deed
records of the county in which the property is located. 
If there is more than one claimant for the same property
under the same claim and the claimants have different
acquisition dates, the acquisition date is the earliest of
those dates.

(2) If the claimant is the surviving spouse of a person

who was an owner of the property in fee title, the
claimant’s acquisition date is the date the claimant was
married to the deceased spouse or the date the spouse

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
18 | State Measures

acquired the property, whichever is later. A claimant or
a surviving spouse may disclaim the relief provided
under sections 5 to 22 of this 2007 Act by using the 
procedure provided in ORS 105.623 to 105.649.

(3) If a claimant conveyed the property to another 

person and reacquired the property, whether by 
foreclosure or otherwise, the claimant’s acquisition
date is the date the claimant reacquired ownership of
the property.

(4) A default judgment entered after December 2,

2004, does not alter a claimant’s acquisition date unless
the claimant’s acquisition date is after December 2,
2004.

SECTION 21a. For the purposes of sections 5 to 22 of

this 2007 Act, a document is filed on the date the 
document is received by the public entity.

SECTION 21b. For the purposes of sections 5 to 22 of

this 2007 Act, the fair market value of property is the
amount of money, in cash, that the property would bring
if the property was offered for sale by a person who
desires to sell the property but is not obligated to sell
the property, and if the property was bought by a person
who was willing to buy the property but not obligated to
buy the property. The fair market value is the actual
value of property, with all of the property’s adaptations
to general and special purposes. The fair market value
of property does not include any prospective value,
speculative value or possible value based upon future
expenditures and improvements.

SECTION 21c. If any part of sections 5 to 22 of this
2007 Act is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid, all remaining parts of sections 5 to 22 of this
2007 Act shall not be affected by the holding and shall
remain in full force and effect.

SECTION 22. (1) The Compensation and Conservation

Fund is established in the State Treasury, separate and
distinct from the General Fund. Interest earned on 
moneys in the Compensation and Conservation Fund
shall be credited to the fund. The fund consists of 
moneys received by the Department of Land
Conservation and Development under sections 5 to 22
of this 2007 Act and other moneys available to the
department for the purpose described in subsection (2)
of this section.

(2) Moneys in the fund are continuously appropriated

to the department for the purpose of paying expenses
incurred to review claims under sections 5 to 22 of this
2007 Act and for the purpose of paying the expenses of
the Compensation and Conservation Ombudsman
appointed under section 17 of this 2007 Act.

CONFORMING AMENDMENTS
SECTION 23. ORS 93.040 is amended to read:
93.040. (1) The following statement shall be included in the

body of an instrument transferring or contracting to transfer fee
title to real property except for owner’s sale agreements or
earnest money receipts, or both, as provided in subsection (2)
of this section: ”BEFORE SIGNING OR ACCEPTING THIS
INSTRUMENT, THE PERSON TRANSFERRING FEE TITLE
SHOULD INQUIRE ABOUT THE PERSON’S RIGHTS, IF ANY,
UNDER [ORS 197.352] SECTIONS 2, 3 AND 5 TO 22 OF
THIS 2007 ACT. THIS INSTRUMENT DOES NOT ALLOW USE
OF THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN THIS INSTRUMENT IN 
VIOLATION OF APPLICABLE LAND USE LAWS AND 
REGULATIONS. BEFORE SIGNING OR ACCEPTING THIS
INSTRUMENT, THE PERSON ACQUIRING FEE TITLE TO THE
PROPERTY SHOULD CHECK WITH THE APPROPRIATE CITY OR
COUNTY PLANNING DEPARTMENT TO VERIFY APPROVED
USES, TO DETERMINE ANY LIMITS ON LAWSUITS AGAINST

continued  

Measure 49

FARMING OR FOREST PRACTICES AS DEFINED IN ORS 30.930
AND TO INQUIRE ABOUT THE RIGHTS OF NEIGHBORING
PROPERTY OWNERS, IF ANY, UNDER [ORS 197.352] 
SECTIONS 2, 3 AND 5 TO 22 OF THIS 2007 ACT.”
(2) In all owner’s sale agreements and earnest money

receipts, there shall be included in the body of the instrument
the following statement: ”THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN THIS
INSTRUMENT MAY NOT BE WITHIN A FIRE PROTECTION 
DISTRICT PROTECTING STRUCTURES. THE PROPERTY IS
SUBJECT TO LAND USE LAWS AND REGULATIONS THAT, IN
FARM OR FOREST ZONES, MAY NOT AUTHORIZE CONSTRUC-
TION OR SITING OF A RESIDENCE AND THAT LIMIT LAWSUITS
AGAINST FARMING OR FOREST PRACTICES AS DEFINED IN
ORS 30.930 IN ALL ZONES. BEFORE SIGNING OR ACCEPTING
THIS INSTRUMENT, THE PERSON TRANSFERRING FEE TITLE
SHOULD INQUIRE ABOUT THE PERSON’S RIGHTS, IF ANY,
UNDER [ORS 197.352] SECTIONS 2, 3 AND 5 TO 22 OF
THIS 2007 ACT. BEFORE SIGNING OR ACCEPTING THIS
INSTRUMENT, THE PERSON ACQUIRING FEE TITLE TO THE
PROPERTY SHOULD CHECK WITH THE APPROPRIATE CITY OR
COUNTY PLANNING DEPARTMENT TO VERIFY APPROVED
USES, THE EXISTENCE OF FIRE PROTECTION FOR 
STRUCTURES AND THE RIGHTS OF NEIGHBORING PROPERTY
OWNERS, IF ANY, UNDER [ORS 197.352] SECTIONS 2, 3
AND 5 TO 22 OF THIS 2007 ACT.”

(3) In all owners’ sale agreements and earnest money

receipts subject to ORS 358.505, there shall be included in the
body of the instrument or by addendum the following 
statement: ”THE PROPERTY DESCRIBED IN THIS 
INSTRUMENT IS SUBJECT TO SPECIAL ASSESSMENT 
UNDER ORS 358.505. ORS 358.515 REQUIRES NOTIFICATION
TO THE STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICER OF SALE
OR TRANSFER OF THIS PROPERTY.”

(4) An action may not be maintained against the county

recording officer for recording an instrument that does not 
contain the statement required in subsection (1) or (2) of this
section.

(5) An action may not be maintained against any person 

for failure to include in the instrument the statement required 
in subsection (1) or (2) of this section, or for recording an 
instrument that does not contain the statement required in 
subsection (1) or (2) of this section, unless the person acquiring
or agreeing to acquire fee title to the real property would not
have executed or accepted the instrument but for the absence
in the instrument of the statement required by subsection (1) or
(2) of this section. An action may not be maintained by the 
person acquiring or agreeing to acquire fee title to the real
property against any person other than the person transferring
or contracting to transfer fee title to the real property.

SECTION 24. The unit captions used in this 2007 Act
are provided only for the convenience of the reader and
do not become part of the statutory law of this state or
express a legislative intent in the enactment of this
2007 Act.

SECTION 25. This 2007 Act shall be submitted to the

people for their approval or rejection at a special 
election held throughout this state as provided in 
chapter ______, Oregon Laws 2007 (Enrolled House Bill
2083).
NOTE: Boldfaced type indicates new language; [brackets and
italic] type indicates deletions or comments.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
19 | State Measures

Explanatory Statement

Ballot Measure 37 (2004) requires governments to pay

landowners or forgo enforcement when certain land use regu-
lations reduce their property values. This measure modifies
Measure 37 to give landowners who have filed Measure 37
claims the right to build homes as compensation for land use
regulations imposed after they acquired their properties.

Claimants may build up to three homes if allowed when they

acquired their properties.

Claimants may build up to 10 homes if allowed when they

acquired their properties and they have suffered reductions in
property values that justify the additional home sites.

This measure protects farmlands, forestlands and lands with

groundwater shortages in two ways.

First, subdivisions are not allowed on high-value farmlands,
forestlands and groundwater-restricted lands. Claimants may
not build more than three homes on such lands.

Second, claimants may not use this measure to override 
current zoning laws that prohibit commercial and industrial
developments, such as strip malls and mines, on land reserved
for homes, farms, forests and other uses.

Also, this measure expands homebuilding rights under

Measure 37 in two ways.

First, it extends homebuilding rights to surviving spouses

whose claims are not eligible for compensation under 
Measure 37.

Second, it allows claimants to transfer their homebuilding

rights to new owners, a right not clearly provided by 
Measure 37. The new owners must exercise their homebuilding
rights within 10 years.

Claimants will be notified of their options to build homes
under this measure within 120 days after this measure takes
effect.

Claimants who have received land use waivers under

Measure 37 are entitled to complete developments under the
provisions of Measure 37 if they have established vested rights
to do so.

To streamline the approval process for small claims, this
measure provides that those who choose to apply for up to
three homes need only show they had the right to build the
homes they are requesting when they acquired their property.
To validate larger claims, this measure requires those who

choose to apply for four to 10 homes to show they had the right
to develop the homes they are requesting when they acquired
their property and that they have suffered a loss of value from
prior regulations that justifies the number of homes requested.
Appraisals are required to establish such reductions in value.
The costs of appraisals and other costs of preparing claims may
be added to the calculation of reduced values, up to $5,000 per
claim.

This measure establishes an ombudsman to help 

landowners who request assistance with their claims.

This measure modifies Measure 37 for compensation claims

that arise from land use regulations in the future. It authorizes
such claims based on regulations that limit residential uses of
property or farm and forest practices, requires documentation
of reduced values and provides for proportionate compensa-
tion when such reductions in value occur. Property owners will
have five years to file claims over regulations enacted after
January 1, 2007.

This measure will be effective 30 days after approval by the

voters.

(This impartial statement explaining the measure was provided by the
2007 Legislative Assembly.)

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Legislative Argument in Support

Argument in Favor

The people of Oregon want Measure 37 to be fixed.
That was the clear message delivered to the Legislature this
year.
Hundreds of Oregonians from around the state traveled to
Salem for nine public hearings to describe the chaos and 
confusion created by Measure 37.
Here’s what they told the Land Use Fairness Committee:

• Measure 37 is not working for farm families and small

land owners who wish to build homes on their property.
• Big developers have been exploiting Measure 37 to pave

the way for large subdivisions and strip malls on lands
now reserved for farming and forestry.

Those big developments diminish our most valuable 
natural-resource lands, deplete scarce water supplies and 
overwhelm local roads, schools and public safety services.
Even worse, Measure 37 has pitted neighbor against neighbor,
with more than 270 lawsuits pending in Oregon courts.
Most of the 369 Oregonians who traveled to Salem to share
their concerns asked us to fix Measure 37, suspend it or repeal it
outright. Many told us they had voted for Measure 37 but wish
now that they could change their vote or change the measure to
do what they had intended. Not one person told us they had
voted against the measure and now wish they had voted for it.
This input convinced us to come back to you, the voters, with a
proposal to address Measure 37’s flaws.
Our proposal – Measure 49 – does not repeal Measure 37.
Instead, it establishes a balance in our land use system to 
protect the rights of landowners and their neighbors. It protects
the right of farm families and other landowners to build homes
on their property and protects the lands and resources that
make Oregon a special place to live, work and raise a family.
Measure 49 is now in your hands. We hope you agree that
Measure 49 offers a better way to protect and preserve the best
of Oregon for all of us.

Committee Members:
Senator Floyd Prozanski
Representative Brian Clem
Representative Greg Macpherson

Appointed by:
President of the Senate
Speaker of the House
Speaker of the House

(This Joint Legislative Committee was appointed to provide the 
legislative argument in support of the ballot measure pursuant to 
ORS 251.245.)

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
20 | State Measures

The Bowerman Family asks for your YES vote on
Measure 49.
Our family arrived by covered wagon in Oregon in 1845 with a
vision of raising future generations in the natural splendor of
this rich and beautiful land. Much has changed in the 160 years
since then, but one thing remains constant: our family’s deep
commitment to the care of Oregon.
We have worked as farmers, homemakers, teachers, shop-
keepers, woodworkers, and more. We have lived and continue
to live in all regions: the Willamette, Rogue and John Day
Valleys; Portland, Medford, Bend, Eugene, Fossil and other
towns. We know from family history that our grandparents and
great-grandparents treasured and nurtured their relationship
with the land. Our present generation carries on this family 
tradition.
We are convinced that Measure 37 must be fixed or it will 
wreak havoc on the productivity and beauty of our state; 
will effectively dismantle Oregon’s commitment to growth 
management; and will have severe detrimental consequences
for our children and grandchildren.
We have studied Measure 49 thoroughly. We are convinced it is
absolutely necessary to correct the unintended consequences
of Measure 37. All Oregonians must work together to preserve
our special quality of life for future generations.
Please join us, vote YES on Measure 49.
Signed:
Barbara Bowerman, Fossil
Jon Bowerman, Wheeler County
Jay Bowerman, Deschutes County
Tom Bowerman, Lane County
Kristine Bowerman, Lane County
Jayson Bowerman, Deschutes County
Tracy Bowerman, Bend
McKenzie Bowerman, Oakridge
Danielle Bowerman, Oakridge
Will Bowerman, Fossil
Elizabeth Bowerman, Redmond

(This information furnished by Tom R. Bowerman.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

A Message from Four Oregon Governors

Dear Fellow Oregonian:
We come from different political parties, different parts of
Oregon, different occupations, and we each had the privilege of
serving Oregon as Governor during very different times.
For all our differences, however, we share a love of Oregon. 
We appreciate the legacy we have been given, and understand
the tremendous responsibility we have to protect that legacy
and pass it long.
Oregon is loveable – and livable – because Oregonians have
actively engaged in protecting that legacy. That’s why we have
the bounty that other states have lost:

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

• Majestic forests that offer beauty, recreation and a 

livelihood for many communities. 

• Irreplaceable farmland that supports a rich and varied 

agricultural economy; and 

• A balance that protects Oregon’s unique assets and the

property rights of Oregonians.

That is why we come together to ask you to vote Yes on
Measure 49.
Measure 49 will fix the flaws in Measure 37 – flaws that threaten
the Oregon we love. Measure 37, passed in 2004, has opened
the door to massive development that will destroy the 
farmland, forestland and water resources we have today.
Measure 49 will deliver what Oregonians had in minds when
they voted on Measure 37: a balance that protects Oregon’s
farms, forests, and water and allows individual property 
owners to build more than one home on their property.
Measure 49 will also deliver something bigger: a workable land
use policy that will allow us to keep our precious Oregon assets
– the things that make Oregon special – and be fair to property
owners.
Please join us in voting Yes on Measure 49.
Governor Vic Atiyeh (1979 – 1987)
Governor Barbara Roberts (1991 – 1995)
Governor John Kitzhaber MD (1995 – 2003)
Governor Ted Kulongoski (2003 – present)

(This information furnished by Theodore Kulongoski.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Measure 37 is a Mess.

Measure 49 Will Clean It Up.

Measure 37 was sold as a way to allow a landowner to build a
few homes to their property – for their kids or to fund their
retirement – if they could do so when they bought the land.
Since its passage, over 7,500 claims for development have
been filed covering about 730,000 acres of the state. Most of 
the claims are for 10 or fewer houses. (Up to that amount is
allowed under Measure 49).

But most of the acreage covered by M37 claims is for
enormous development: huge housing subdivisions,
strip malls and big box stores. Almost all of this large-
scale development is on Oregon’s prime farmland, in
forests and along water – where it just doesn’t belong.

Measure 37 has also created incredible confusion and

unfairness in every corner of the state.

Rules should be the same for everyone.

But that’s not how Measure 37 is working.
Nobody has been able to figure out Measure 37’s flawed 
language, so it is interpreted differently, county by county,
property by property.

Measure 49 clarifies the rules and makes them consistent

throughout the state.

Measure 37 also destroys the rights of some, 

while giving a bonanza to others.

deed since the beginning of ownership cannot proceed with a
Measure 37 claim.

Measure 49 allows transferability of development rights

for kids and surviving spouses.

Measure 49:

Makes the rules consistent for everybody.

Strengthens rights of small individual property owners.
Protects farmland, forests water and our quality of life

from the abuses of Measure 37.

Clean up the mess!

Vote YES on 49

(This information furnished by Elizabeth Kaufman, Yes on 49 Campaign.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

How does Measure 49 work?

It’s really pretty simple.

Measure 37 – passed in 2004 – has created chaos for Oregon’s
unique natural beauty and for landowners who thought they
could do what they want with their own property. There are 
different rules for every property, different interpretations of its
vague language in every county, and the flaws of Measure 37
allow massive subdivisions, commercial and industrial 
development in places they simply don’t belong.

Measure 49 takes this chaos and makes things 
straightforward, consistent and balanced for

property owners and all of Oregon.

Here is how it works:

• Measure 49 protects the property rights of small
individual landowners by immediately allowing
them up to 3 houses on their property, if the law
allowed it when they bought their land. And it will
pass those rights on to a surviving spouse or to someone
who purchases the property from the current owner–
something that Measure 37 left out and needs to be fixed. 

• Additionally, property owners can build up to 
10 houses if they can document a decrease in 
property value equal to the value of the additional
houses – just as Measure 37 originally promised.
(Three homesites – clustered on one portion of large 
properties-- is the limit for high-value farmland, and
forests or places with limited water supplies.)

• Measure 49 limits large development – in order to

protect Oregon’s farmland, forests and water.
That means stopping the abuse of Measure to develop
huge housing subdivisions, strip malls, big-box stores,
and mining operations where they are not allowed by 
zoning.

The development interests who stand to make huge profits
from Measure 37 are the ones opposing Measure 49. They will
try their best to confuse the issue, claiming that Measure 49 is
complicated. But as you can see, it is quite straightforward.
For more information, go to www.yeson49.com and read the
entire ballot measure.

Vote Yes on 49

For example, M37 left out the right of “transferability.” That
means some people who want to build a few homes on their
land – for their kids or to fund their retirement – cannot transfer
the rights to own those homes to their children or a new owner.
Even a surviving spouse whose name doesn’t appear on the 

(This information furnished by Emily Jackson, Yes on 49 Campaign.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
21 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Favor

Measure 49: Fact vs. Fiction

Does Measure 49 Repeal Measure 37?
No. Measure 49 fixes the major flaws and loopholes of
Measure 37 that have both frustrated landowners with modest
claims and threatened our farmland, forest, and water supplies
with claims for large subdivisions, strip malls, billboards, and
gravel pits. Measure 37 remains law—Measure 49 simply
makes amendments to restore balance and deliver what
Measure 37 promised.
Will Measure 49 wipe out almost all current Measure 37
claims, and eliminate all protection from future 
regulations?
Absolutely not. Measure 49 allows claimants to move 
forward with development of up to 3-10 homesites and 
guarantees the ability to file claims for future changes in 
residential use of property, and farm and forest practices. The
claim that the government will come to take your home is
patently false.
Will people with valid Measure 37 claims have to start
over?
No. Within 120 days of passage of Measure 49, claimants will
receive a simple form from the state asking them to choose
between the ‘fast track’ up to three homesites or—if they can
prove property value loss, backed up with an appraisal—4 to 10
homesites. Then, the claimant may proceed with development.
Are Oregon businesses are specifically targeted by
Measure 49?
Oregon land use laws require that local governments provide
land for commercial and industrial development. That
requirement will continue. Measure 49 simply prohibits claims
for industrial and commercial development not allowed by 
zoning. 
Did the Legislature draft Measure 49 without holding
public hearings?
Measure 49 was the result of dozens of hours of public hearings
over several months, with testimony from hundreds of 
individual Oregonians.
If Measure 37 is left unmodified, can more claims be
filed in the future for large subdivisions, strip malls, 
billboards, and more?
If left unchanged, Measure 37 claims can continue to be filed
indefinitely for large development not allowed by current 
zoning. Measure 49 closes this loophole.

(This information furnished by Laura S. Imeson, Yes on 49.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Yes on Measure 49 – Protect Our Home: Oregon

I live on a farm in Washington County, amidst some of the best
farmland on earth--where perennial tall fescue is grown for
grass seed, filberts for Christmas stockings, sweet corn for the
farmers market, and alfalfa to feed beef cows.
After Measure 37 passed, the first claims seemed reasonable:
One neighbor wanted to divide her property into thirds.
Another wanted to build one house on 10 acres.
But then the “other” claims came. Within just 3 miles of my
farm, there are 54 Measure 37 claims to build a potential 1761
homes – most in an area designated “ground water restricted.’

Imagine moving combines, trailer loads of nursery stock, and
large agricultural equipment over our narrow winding roads,
amidst the flood of more vehicles commuting to jobs and
school. Who will pay for road improvements? How will we
provide water to 1761 homes?
This kind of random, intense development will have a 
devastating impact on highly productive farmland.
And who “benefits?” Not the small property owner. Within
Washington County, 88% of the Measure 37 home sites are
requested by just 20% of claimants. 
Meanwhile, most farm families cannot file Measure 37
claims, though their land has been in the same family
for 50 years. Yet their economic livelihood will be
severely impacted, if not destroyed.
Nearby elderly widows try to file modest Measure 37 claims,
but are denied because they were never on the deed with their
husbands.
Other families can’t profit from their Measure 37 claims,
because development rights aren’t transferable.
Measure 49 re-balances Measure 37.
It provides relief to those who want to build a home or two on
their rural property.
It helps the elderly claimants wanting to provide for their 
retirement or a place for their children. 
And, by limiting the size of development, we keep the impact to
the community and reasonable and manageable. 
Vote YES on Measure 49
David Papworth

(This information furnished by David Papworth.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Do you want to really protect Property Rights?

Then Vote Yes on Measure 49!

I am a retired forester, a former contributor to Oregonians In
Action and I strongly support private property rights.
But when the interests behind Measure 37 sold it to Oregon,
they talked about protecting the rights of small property 
owners to build a few houses on their land, if it was permitted
by the law when they bought the property.
Well, the timber and development industries that have filed
claims to build massive subdivisions, commercial and 
industrial projects on protected farmland and forestland are
doing great under Measure 37.
But Measure 37 left many small, individual landowners in the
cold.
The flawed language of Measure 37 didn’t spell out the ability
to transfer development rights from one person to another –
even to a surviving spouse! And it left the actual process for
securing property rights vague, confusing and different from
county to county, and city to city.

• Measure 49 guarantees “transferability” of rights

to a surviving spouse and if you sell your property to
someone else.

• Measure 49 provides an “express lane” for 

individual owners, immediately allowing them up to
three houses on their property outside urban areas.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
22 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

• Measure 49 also provides a fair, simple process to

build up to 10 homes by documenting an equivalent
loss in value – as long as the extra houses are not on prime
farmland or forestland and don’t threaten limited water
supplies. (In those cases, property owners can still get up
to three homesites if that was allowed when they bought
their land.)

• And Measure 49 protects the property rights of

neighbors, by not allowing massive subdivisions, 
industrial or commercial development where it just 
doesn’t belong.

Fair for Property Owners. Right for Oregon.

Measure 49:

Ken Faulk, Benton County 

(This information furnished by Ken Faulk.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Measure 49 Will Stops the Abuses of Measure 37

Measure 37 was supposed to help small landowners – not large
developers. 
But the claims for development filed during the first two years
of Measure 37 tell a different story.
For every claim filed by small landowners seeking to
build one to three homes on their property, there have
been four claims filed for subdivisions, for commercial
and industrial projects, and for developments that
claimants have not yet specified what will be built.
These numbers come from a hard count of Measure 37 claims
by Portland State University’s Institute of Portland Metropolitan
Studies. The numbers show:
• Claims filed by landowners known to be seeking one to three

homes: 1,821 claims on 62,860 acres.

• Claims known to be seeking housing subdivisions: 2,753

claims on 319,322 acres.

• Claims on land now reserved for Oregon’s farms and forests:

4,580 claims on 487,898 acres.

• The ten largest subdivisions alone would carve out 34,850

home sites on 41,837 acres.

We shouldn’t allow developers and speculators to take
advantage of Measure 37 in this way.
We shouldn’t allow our prime farm and forest lands to
be paved over for massive subdivisions.
Measure 49 offers a better way:

• It offers fast track approvals for the over 1,821 land owners
who have filed claims to build one to three homes on their
property.

• It offers a reasonable compromise for thousands of land
owners who filed claims for larger developments. These
land owners can opt for three homes or seek up to ten
homes on land that is not reserved for high-value farming
or forestry and is not threatened with a shortage of
groundwater.

• It closes loopholes in Measure 37 that will otherwise 

allow speculators and developers to destroy the most 
productive lands in our state.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
23 | State Measures

Give small landowners what they were promised by
Measure 37. Stop the abuses by developers and 
speculators.
Vote Yes on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Brian Rae, Yes on 49 Campaign.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

A Message from U.S. Senator Ron Wyden

Protect Oregon’s Future.
Respect Oregon’s Past.

Please Vote Yes on Measure 49 

I’ve had the honor of representing Oregon in the United States
Senate for almost 12 years. Throughout my service, I have been
acutely aware that the decisions I make have an important
impact on the future of our state. And, I’ve tried to make sure
those decisions reflect the values of Oregon, and the legacy
that has been passed on to all of us.
This fall we face a state ballot measure crucial to our future.
And, I’m asking you to join me in voting Yes on Measure 49
because it is so important to protecting our priceless Oregon
heritage.
Measure 37 articulated a principle that Oregonians believed in:
respect for people’s private property rights. But the way it did
that had unintended consequences – and we now can see the
results. The level of development – and the kind of development
it has unleashed -- will destroy our farmland, forests and 
special places in a way that the voters did not intend. That has
been demonstrated by the bipartisan outpouring of Oregonians
who have called for a fix.
Measure 49 does not repeal Measure 37 – it restores the 
balance by allowing small individual property owners greater
freedom to build, if the law allowed it when they bought their
property. But it does that in a way that also protects our future
by respecting our past: the legacy that is our Oregon. 
There are very few decisions that will have a greater impact on
our state, our children and our grandchildren. My decision is to
vote Yes on Measure 49. I hope yours will be too. 

(This information furnished by Senator Ron Wyden.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Polk County Farm Bureau

for Measure 49

If you want the “little guy” to get a fair shake, vote
“Yes” on Measure 49.
Over 42% of claims for development under Measure 37 seek 
1-3 homesites.
Measure 49 gives these claims a green light and transferability.
That is what Oregon voters had in mind in 2004 when they
approved Measure 37.
Measure 49’s limits are needed. Nearly 58% of Measure 37
development claims are for large housing subdivisions, nearly
3,800 of them right on farm and forest land.
The proposed subdivisions average 134 acres each; and over
60% are in the Willamette Valley.

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

These subdivisions threaten farms. How? Go to Oregon
Department of Agriculture’s website,
http://www.oregon.gov/ODA/NRD/m37.shtml, and see for 
yourself. ODA’s maps show 969 Measure 37 subdivision claims
scattered throughout the heart of vibrant farm areas of Marion,
Clackamas, and Washington counties alone -- Oregon’s TOP
THREE producing farm counties.
These subdivisions would be an economic and 
environmental disaster for the Willamette Valley.
Measure 49 gives Oregon voters a chance to say, “Wait a
minute! I didn’t intend Measure 37 to undermine Willamette
Valley agriculture, or to ruin the Valley’s beauty.”
Measure 49 allows what Oregon voters intended --some
development for the little guy, but preserving our 
farmland:

• 3 homesites if the claim is on high value farm or forest

land, or in a restricted groundwater area. These homesites
must be clustered at one end of the property and can only
be 5 acres each, so they have the least impact on large
swaths of farmland;

• 4-10 lots if a claim is on any other type of land, based on

proof of loss of property value - backed up by an appraisal.
Under Measure 49, every Measure 37 claim goes forward.
But Measure 49 sets limits that we can live with.
Measure 49 fixes the wrongs of Measure 37. Vote “YES” on
Measure 49.

Thank you, from the heart of the Willamette Valley.

(This information furnished by Paul Thorp, Polk County Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

The League of Women Voters of Oregon

Urges YOU to

VOTE YES

On Measure 49

The League of Women Voters believes that Measure 49 is a
fair and balanced solution to the problems created by
Measure 37.
The League of Women Voters believes our 35-year-old land use
planning system has provided good homes and good jobs
while protecting our agricultural industry. We also believe in
protection of private property rights balanced by consideration
of public health and environmental protection. Measure 49
supports these values.
We should protect agricultural jobs by protecting agricultural
land. We should protect tourism jobs by protecting Oregon’s
special places. We should protect our communities and limited
tax dollars from expensive urban sprawl.
Measure 49 allows valid claimants and their spouses to
build up to 3 homesites on their long-owned property or 
to transfer these rights to their kids or others, something
Measure 37 does not do. Claimants may build up to ten 
homesites if they can prove lost value.
Measure 49 protects the rights of neighbors by stopping
large subdivisions and industrial or commercial 
developments where they don’t belong.
Measure 49 balances people’s rights: Vote YES on
Measure 49!

Join the

The League of Women Voters of Oregon

In Voting

YES

On Measure 49!

The League of Women Voters is a grassroots nonpartisan, 

political organization that encourages informed and 

active participation in government.

(This information furnished by Marge Easley, President, League of
Women Voters of Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Frontline Fire Fighters say:

Help Us Protect Your Life and your Property.

Vote YES on Measure 49. 
Our job comes down to one word: protection.

• We are here to protect your life and the life of your family if

there is a fire.

• We also protect you in the case of a medical emergency,

motor vehicle accident, natural or manmade disaster, and
many other emergency situations that may exist.

• And once we make sure you are safe, we protect your

home, your business and your property.

The kind of development that Measure 37 will allow will
make it more difficult to do our job. That is why
Oregon’s Professional Fire Fighters support Measure 49,
and hope you will too.
As it stands right now, Measure 37 is poised to build large
swaths of housing far away from services like fire and police
protections. And dealing with that isn’t as simple as saying
“Well, just put a fire house there!”

• Many Measure 37 developments are in places without

enough water.

• Sometimes they are in places where it would be very
expensive to extend fire protection – more than local 
property taxpayers could handle.

• And many of these developments are in places at high risk
for wildfires and forest fires – dangerous for residents, and
dangerous for fire fighters.

Measure 49 will let people build, but with a little common sense
attached. And we can tell you from personal experience, 
common sense is one of the best fire prevention tools there is.

Join Oregon’s Professional Fire Fighters

in Voting Yes on 49!

Endorsed by Oregon State Fire Fighters Council

(This information furnished by Kelly Bach, President, Oregon State Fire
Fighters Council.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
24 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Favor

Argument in Favor

Measure 37 in Southern Oregon:

Subdivisions and Riverside Gravel Pits

In Jackson, Josephine and Klamath Counties – claims for
Measure 37 development include proposals for enormous 
subdivisions on farmland, in forests and in areas with severe
water problems.
Here are just some proposed Measure 37 developments in
southern Oregon. For more information, call your County
Planning Department. 
Location: Old Stage Road, Gold Hill
# of acres: 346
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision 340 into one-acre lots
[Contains mapped wetland]
Location: Pompadour Dr, Ashland, Jackson County
# of acres: 958
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision into 958 one-acre lots for residential 
development
Claimant: Krouse Ranch, Inc.
Location: Along Applegate River, North Applegate Rd, 
Grants Pass
# of acres: 195
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Aggregate excavation and removal
Claimant: Hill
Location: Along Applegate River, Hwy 238, Jackson County
# of acres: 102
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Aggregate excavation and removal

From Jackson County staff reports: “The property is within a
mapped sensitive wildlife habitat area, a wildfire hazard area,
affected by the Applegate River 100-year floodplain, and
activities will be visible from a designated outstanding scenic
roadway” -- conditional use permit filed through Copeland
Sand and Gravel, Inc.

Location: Pinecrest Drive, Josephine County
# of acres: 183
Current zoning: forest use, rural residential
Intent: Subdivision into 1-acre parcels; commercial uses
Location: Lower Klamath Lake Road, Klamath Falls, 
Klamath County
# of acres: 4,100
Current zoning: exclusive farm use, farm-forest mixed use
Intent: Subdivision into 17,859 parcels.
Location: Gerber Road, Bonanza, Klamath County
# of acres: 6,611.28
Current zoning: exclusive farm use, farm-forest mixed use, 
forest use
Intent: Subdivision into 1-acre lots.
Location: Paygr Road, Merrill, Klamath County
# of acres: 837
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 800 one-acre lot subdivision.
These three proposed Measure 37 subdivisions alone in
Klamath County would total 25,270 new homesites.
(Information provided according to most recent data available
as of Aug 20, 2007.)

(This information furnished by Liz Kaufman, Yes on 49 Campaign.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
25 | State Measures

Vote Yes on Measure 49

Save Our Beautiful Applegate River Valley from Mining
We are residents of the scenic Applegate Valley in Southern
Oregon. Recently, we joined together to form SAVE (Save
Applegate Valley Environment) to fight three proposed 
aggregate/gravel mines along and in the middle of the
Applegate River.
The owners of the properties had tried to develop these mines
before, but Oregon laws protected the river from these 
dangerous proposals. Now the owners have filed Measure 37
claims for special rights to get these land use laws waived.
That’s why we desperately need Measure 49.
These industrial aggregate (gravel) mines will have a
devastating impact on our valley and community. Their
application states there will be 12 inbound and 12 outbound
trucks every hour. That’s 220 truck trips per day for up to
10 years from just one mine!
220 truck trips per day for 10 years on our narrow, 
winding North Applegate Road. 
There are many more problems:
Emergency vehicle access and response times – what will
happen when emergency vehicles encounter huge haul trucks
on our narrow winding road?
Our kids and school bus routes – what about the safety of
school buses and our kids’ who walk and bike along the 
roadway.
Property values – our property values will be in jeopardy if
these mines operate. Who will be next?
Healthy River Systems – The Applegate is designated
Essential Salmon Habitat for the Endangered Coho
Salmon
Problems like these are why we have rules to protect 
communities and families – rules that Measure 37 eliminates 
in every part of Oregon.
Oregon voters never intended Measure 37 to destroy natural
areas like the Applegate Valley with mining operations.
That’s why we need Measure 49 to clarify and fix Measure 37.
Measure 49 provides fairness to small property owners and
prevents commercial and industrial development such as
aggregate mining.
Please help us save our beautiful Applegate Valley. 
Vote Yes on Measure 49!

(This information furnished by Sean Jeans-Gail, Yes on 49 Campaign.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

THE WILLAMETTE VALLEY: LAND OF FARMS

OR SUBDIVISIONS?

Measure 37 was sold as a way for a property owner to build a
few homes on their land for their kids or their retirement – if
they could do so when they bought it.
But Measure 37 has also brought claims for development for
enormous subdivisions destroying high-value farmland.
For example, while Marion County was the top agricultural
county in Oregon in 2006, Measure 37 claims could bring in

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

more than 251 new subdivisions. Once we lose this farmland,
we never get it back.
Here are just a few of the 2,259 Measure 37 claims filed
across the entire Willamette Valley:
Location: Groundwater limited area, Liberty Road South, Salem
# of acres: 215
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision into 80 lots, each with individual 
groundwater well
Location: Quinaby Road NE, Salem
# of acres: 156
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Residential subdivision and commercial uses
Location: 3500 Buena Vista Rd S, Salem
# of acres: 136
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: subdivide into 1 acre to 5 acre lots
Claimant: Ankeny Gun Club
Location: Cadle Road, Rickreall
# of acres: 462
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Commercial retail use – shopping mall
Location: Highway 22, Yamhill County
# of acres: 7,647
Intent: Subdivisions
Location: Highway 99W, Newberg
# of acres: 69
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision into one-acre or smaller lots for residential
and commercial lots
Location: Niederberger Road, Dundee
# of acres: 15
Current zoning: rural-residential
Intent: 5-acre retail shopping center, residential subdivision
Location: Salmon River Highway, Polk County
# of acres: 219
Current zoning: farm-forest mixed use
Intent: Highway-oriented commercial, light-industrial, and 
residential subdivisions
Location: Dallas, Polk County
# of acres: 82
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: gas station, grocery, 1-acre residential dwellings,
church, retirement home
(Information provided according to most recent data available
as of Aug 20, 2007.)

(This information furnished by Jamie Hogue, Yes on 49.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

ANOTHER FAMILY FARMER URGES YOU TO

VOTE YES ON 49

Our family lives near Dayton on a family farm established in
1923. Our family…my husband and I, our two children, and my
husband’s parents farms over 1,000 acres. We grow
Marionberries, filberts, table beets, grass seed, and radish
seed. 
We had friends and even family who voted for Measure 37
having been mislead into believing that it simply would
allow elderly landowners to add a home or two to their land. 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
26 | State Measures

What they found is that Measure 37 really benefited real estate
developers, not small property owners. 
We worry about the loss of valuable farmland if 
Measure 37 isn’t fixed. If farmers have to compete with
developers, farmers will lose.
There are Measure 37 claims for 25 new housing subdivisions
within seven miles of our farm. All those new houses are a
threat to our ability to farm.
We’ve got a few neighbors now and have to be very cautious.
We try to be quiet and when we’re out early or late, we try to
stay away from their houses. But it’s just not practical to farm
next to housing subdivisions. Farming is noisy, dirty and 
sometimes smells. We get used to it as farmers, but others find
it offensive. If enough people move out to farmland and object,
our right to farm laws will disappear.
Development like this hurts all of us: we’re already too
dependent on imported oil. Are we also going to have to
depend on imported food because we run out of farmland?
It just doesn’t make sense.
Measure 49 is a reasonable compromise that will protect
farmland. We won’t have to worry about massive development
putting farmers out of business.
Measure 49 will preserve our future and provide an opportunity
for our kids to continue on the family farm.

PLEASE JOIN US IN VOTING YES ON MEASURE 49

Pieper & Tom Sweeney
Nancy & Sam Sweeney

Dayton, Oregon

(This information furnished by Pieper Sweeney.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

The family farmers and ranchers of Oregon Farm Bureau
ask you to vote yes on Measure 49
Oregon’s family farm organization is Farm Bureau
Anyone can use the phrase “family farm.” Many do because it
evokes good feelings, as it should. Oregon’s heritage and future
are both inextricably linked with family agriculture. From 
serving as a pillar of the state’s economy, to providing one of
the most diverse varieties of fruits and vegetables and grains
and livestock in the world, to providing beauty and wildlife
habitat and countless environmental benefits, Oregon family
farmers and ranchers remain a vital thread in the fabric of
Oregon.. With membership that includes over 8,000 farm and
ranch families across all 36 Oregon counties and with roots 
dating to 1919, Oregon Farm Bureau represents farm families 
in Oregon like no other organization does or could.
When Oregon Farm Bureau arrives at a policy position, such 
as our strong support for Measure 49, it is because family 
farmers and ranchers across the state have come together and
discussed the issue in an open and democratic process and
decided this is what is needed for the overall well-being of 
family agriculture.
It is not a coin flip, or a couple people sitting in a room, or 
knee-jerk ideological reaction. Oregon Farm Bureau is known
for its open and deliberative decision-making process, and
that’s what gives our lawmakers and you the voter confidence
that when you see our name it means something. It means
farmers from all 36 counties have had input into the resulting
stance.
Family agriculture’s survival rests on a foundation made up of
land, water, and labor available for agriculture and a regulatory

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

environment that encourages family agriculture. Measure 49
helps us maintain a fair, balanced approach to being caretakers
of the first and foremost of these needs: Our irreplaceable 
farmland.
Please join the family farmers and ranchers of Oregon
Farm Bureau in supporting Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Dave Dillon, executive vice president,
Oregon Farm Bureau Federation.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Oregon Farm Bureau Young farmers & Ranchers 

Support Measure 49

We are young farmers and ranchers who work Oregon’s 
farmland. We grow crops and livestock to produce a 
sustainable source of food, fiber and energy.
Many of our parents and grand parents farmed our land and 
we hope to see future generations have the opportunity to 
continue to work Oregon’s wonderful farmland.
For farming and ranching to be sustainable a land base must be
preserved. Development from Measure 37 claims threatens to
damage Oregon’s farming industry forever by taking thousands
of acres of farmland permanently out of production by paving
them over for subdivisions.
Much of our farmland is in water-limited areas. We work hard to
conserve water to allow enough water for crops, livestock and
wildlife. Large housing subdivisions don’t belong in areas
where there is already not enough water.
Agriculture and housing subdivisions don’t go well together.
Our work can be dirty and noisy. We often work all night during
the harvest season. It just makes sense to keep rural land for
agriculture.
There is a better way: Measure 49 allows a few homes to be
built on land if owners could do so when they bought it.
Measure 49 limits large developments so that housing sub-
divisions aren’t replacing our precious farmland. We support
this balance between private property rights and the need to
protect our farmland.

Help protect farming in Oregon.

Vote Yes on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Troy Hadley, Chair, Oregon Farm Bureau
Young Farmer & Rancher Committee, Oregon Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

THE NATURE CONSERVANCY

RECOMMENDS YES ON 49

The Nature Conservancy is a leading conservation organization
working in Oregon and around the world to protect ecologically
important lands and waters for nature and people. We’re 
working to pass Measure 49 because the health and vitality of
communities and natural areas in Oregon is at stake.
BALANCED AND RESPONSIBLE 
Oregon families love our state’s natural beauty. It’s essential to
our quality of life. Measure 49 will preserve what’s special
about Oregon.

Measure 49 restores a balance to Oregon. It enables private
landowners to use their property for their families. It also 
prevents huge housing projects, malls and other big 
developments where they don’t belong. 
HEALTHY FISH AND WILDLIFE
Oregonians know that healthy habitats are essential for wild
animals and plants to thrive. 
Measure 49 restores our ability to protect our streams, lakes,
woods, grasslands and beaches – and to ensure the 
investments we make in critical habitats will produce lasting
benefits for fish and wildlife.
CLEAN AND PLENTIFUL WATER 
Throughout Oregon, water for drinking, irrigation and wildlife
is a precious resource. A major flaw in Measure 37 allows new
developments to drill wells and deplete groundwater where
water supplies are already limited.
Measure 49 will prevent such developments from diminishing
clean water sources that are essential for Oregon families,
farmers, fish and wildlife.
OUR NATURAL LEGACY
Forests, farmland and natural areas are disappearing 
throughout the world. In Oregon we take pride in protecting
these assets. Will we preserve our natural resources for 
future generations, or will we let inappropriate development
encroach on nature? That’s the fundamental question you will
decide November 6.
The Nature Conservancy urges you to vote
YES for Measure 49.
Russell Hoeflich, Oregon Director
Will Neuhauser, Chair, Oregon Board of Trustees
Robert S. Ball, Vice Chair
Robert Gootee, Chair Emeritus
Tom Imeson, former Chair
D. Carter MacNichol, former Chair
Liz Cawood, Executive Committee
Peter McDonald, Executive Committee
E. Randolph Labbe, Executive Committee

(This information furnished by Russell Hoeflich, The Nature
Conservancy.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

The Association of Oregon Rail and Transit Advocates

(AORTA) urges a YES vote on Measure 49.

Measure 49 helps fix problems with Measure 37.

In 2004 voters were told Measure 37 was meant to allow 
individual property owners to build a few houses on their land.
Most voters did not realize they were also allowing “timber”
companies and developers to create huge subdivisions and
commercial developments on prime farm and forest lands far
beyond our urban growth boundaries.
Measure 37 requires local governments to either pay for
claimed loss of value or waive current land use regulations on
the property. Measure 37 provides no money for strapped 
local governments to compensate these massive claims. Cut
services or raise taxes to pay claims? Not likely! Without the
changes proposed in Measure 49, there is nothing to stop these
developments and this will produce the kind of sprawl that
Oregonians have consistently opposed.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
27 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Washington County alone has 902 claims totaling over 
$750 million. 700+ claims involve 55,206 acres, most for urban
density subdivisions well outside the Urban Growth Boundary!
For scattered, massive subdivisions, far from existing develop-
ment, the only practical way to travel is by car. Sprawl increases
the costs of nearly all services: police, fire, roads, water, sewers,
social services, transit, etc. Because development fees will
never cover all these costs, this increases your taxes. Sprawl
forces more people to drive longer distances, creating more
traffic.
AORTA is a citizen organization founded in 1976 to encourage
balanced, environmentally sound, fiscally responsible, 
safe transportation. We recognize that our economy and 
environment suffer from a poorly functioning transportation
system. How we manage our growth and land use can 
positively or negatively affect the travel options we can afford
our citizens. Information at: www.aortarail.org.

Fix Measure 37: Fairness without costly sprawl.

YES on Measure 49

(This information furnished by Robert Krebs, president, Association of
Oregon Rail & Transit Advocates (AORTA).)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Measure 49 will protect farmland and forests across Oregon.

BUT IT’S IMPORTANT FOR PORTLAND TOO!

If you live in Portland, you should care about Measure 49. Why?
Because the abuses of Measure 37 aren’t just a threat to rural
Oregon: they threaten what makes Portland a great place to
live.
In Portland and Multnomah County, there are currently 187
claims covering 4,024 acres, including:

• A Wal-Mart in Sellwood

The claim is for commercial development, and the owner
has said he wants to put in a Wal-Mart- over neighborhood
objections.

• Subdivisions on Sauvie Island

Multiple developments would destroy productive 
farmland for housing subdivisions and a boat moorage on
one of our true local treasures.

• Housing Subdivisions on Environmentally Protect

Land
Measure 37 exempts property owners who develop their
land from dozens of laws that protect our neighborhoods,
including noise reduction and limits on stormwater 
pollution. Many Measure 37 claims are in Portland’s most
environmentally sensitive areas- like along Johnson Creek
in SE Portland.

• Billboards, Billboards, Billboards!

There are over 54 Measure 37 claims that would put bill-
boards in every conceivable spot in Portland. “Measure 37
has opened the door to the uglification of Oregon. Voters
can help to close that door by voting for Measure 49.” 
The Oregonian,8/16/07

And do you like your local Farmers Market?
Then you definitely want to vote Yes on 49!

One of the greatest threats of Measure 37 is overdevelopment
of otherwise protected farmland near urban areas – the very
places that provide the local produce and agricultural products
that are sold at our local Farmers Markets. 

WE MUST ACT NOW: The abusive Measure 37 development
around Portland will change forever our ability to drive a 
few minutes and experience the wilderness, quiet rivers and
landscapes that define our special quality of life.
If Measure 49 doesn’t pass this November, this 
development cannot be stopped. 

Keep Portland a Great Place to Live.

VOTE YES ON 49

(This information furnished by Benjamin Unger.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Support Locally-Owned Businesses

Please vote “YES” on Measure 49

Dear Fellow Oregonian,
We own a small business in the Sellwood neighborhood of
Portland, near Milwaukie. Our business is just one of dozens in
the area that benefit from local patrons and, in turn, support the
community. If big-box retailers came to Sellwood, they would
put independently-owned businesses like ours out of business.
Not too long ago, a property owner in the area tried to develop
a Wal-Mart in Sellwood/Milwaukie—he even announced a 
99-year lease with the company. Fortunately, local residents
worked to turn back the development because it didn’t meet
local zoning standards. 
Now the property owner has filed a Measure 37 claim for a 
Wal-Mart big-box store so that he doesn’t have to play by the
zoning rules.
Abusing Measure 37 to break zoning rules, subsidize the
world’s largest corporation and put local stores out of
business simply isn’t right. Is this the kind of impact we
want to allow on our communities?
Measure 37 was promoted as a way to help an elderly widow
build a couple houses for her kids. What Measure 37 has
unleashed is a slew of claims for billboards all over Portland,
more strip malls and big-box stores, and housing subdivisions
on the best farmland in the Willamette Valley.
Measure 49 will fix the flaws and loopholes of 
Measure 37 to prevent claims for strip malls and large
subdivisions where they don’t belong. 
We need to pass Measure 49 this November, before it’s too late
and developers go forward with big-box stores, like Wal-Mart,
where they simply don’t belong.
Please protect neighborhoods and independent 
businesses—vote “YES” on 49.

CJ Hackett, co-owner

Christopher Nakayama, co-owner

Video Lair, Portland, Oregon

(This information furnished by Christopher Nakayama, Video Lair.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
28 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Favor

Argument in Favor

Clackamas County:

The most number of Measure 37 claims.

And the most claims that don’t even tell us what kind of

development we would be getting.

Clackamas County has the highest total number of Measure 37
claims for development filed – about 1,052 total on about
37,000 acres 
According to Clackamas County, if fully developed and 
incorporated:

• This land area is equivalent to the size of the second

largest city in the metro region.

• Assuming just one household per acre, Clackamas County

would grow by more than 25%.

• This would add almost 400,000 vehicle trips per day.

55% of the claims are on Exclusive Farm Use land, which would
eliminate 20,000 acres from agriculture production.
Clackamas County has the highest number of claims with
‘unspecified’ development intent. These seek to waive all or
many zoning and environmental restrictions, allowing the
property to be used for any industrial or commercial purpose,
even mines, landfills, or retail stores, if held long enough by the
current property owner. 
Examples of claims for development requested in Clackamas
County include:
Location: South Herman Road, Molalla
187 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Strip mine.
Location: South Steiner Road/Beaver Creek, Clackamas County
281 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision
Location: South Elisha Road, Canby
286 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision into approximately one-acre lots 
Location: Colton, Clackamas County
20 acres
Current zoning: forest use
Intent: Residential subdivision, RV park, rock quarry, logging
Location: Northeast of Molalla, Clackamas County
931 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use, forest use, farm-forest use
Intent: 305-lot subdivision
Location: South Springwater Road, Oregon City
146 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 185+ lot (or maximum density) subdivision 
Claimant: Emmert
Information provided according to most recent data available
from public agencies.

We can still limit large development – 
protect farmland, forests and water.
Vote yes on 49. Before it’s too late.

(This information furnished by Elizabeth Kaufman.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

A SPECIAL MESSAGE FROM

CONGRESSMAN EARL BLUMENAUER
CONGRESSMAN PETER A. DEFAZIO

CONGRESSWOMAN DARLENE HOOLEY

CONGRESSMAN DAVID WU

Dear Fellow Oregonian,
We are asking you to join us in voting YES on Measure 49.
Serving in the United States Congress offers an interesting 
perspective on our home, Oregon. We get to see our state both
through our eyes as proud Oregonians, and through the eyes 
of our colleagues from other parts of the country. Through both
sets of eyes, we treasure enormously what makes Oregon
unique. 
It is all too easy to take our special quality of life for granted. 
But we are constantly reminded of it as people from other
states look at our farms, our forests and our clean water and 
see what they have lost. In Oregon, we have protected our 
natural heritage, and can hope to pass it on to our children and
grandchildren.
Measure 49 is essential to protecting that legacy – and
we must act now. It will prevent the rampant development
that has been unleashed by Measure 37, which threatens the
things that make Oregon the place we treasure – and which
goes forward if we don’t stop it this November.
But it is important to note that while Measure 49 fixes the flaws
of Measure 37, it does not repeal it. As elected officials, we also
work hard to hear the voices of our fellow citizens. Voters said
quite clearly that they wanted to help the individual property
owners that the original Measure 37 campaign talked about –
folks who wanted to build a few houses on their land if the law
would have permitted it when they bought it.
Measure 49 not only protects property owners’ rights 
to do that, it strengthens them at the same time that it
protects our farmland, forests and water. It brings 
balance back to the system, and does the right thing for
Oregon’s future.

Please join us in voting YES on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Earl Blumenauer, Member of Congress.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Marion County Farm Bureau urges you to vote YES on 
Measure 49. Marion County Farm Bureau is dedicated to 
promoting and protecting our diverse agricultural interests in
our county and state.
At $585,255,000 Marion County has the highest annual 
agricultural commodity sales of any county in Oregon.
Under Measure 37 much of Oregon’s prime farmland is 
threatened with over development. Measure 49 will allow us 
to protect prime farmland from sprawl development that
threatens our state’s quality of life.
Moreover, Measure 49 balances the needs of families who wish
to build a reasonable number of homes in a way that minimizes
conflicts. Measure 49 focuses on the needs of Oregon families
while protecting our best farmland.
Measure 49 helps sustain our best farmland, which is necessary
to provide safe, fresh and local food for today and the future.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
29 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Marion County Farm Bureau urges you to vote YES on 
Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Larry Wells, Marion County Farm
Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

SAVE OUR WATER – YOURS COULD BE NEXT

VOTE “YES” ON MEASURE 49
Measure 37 threatens local water supplies.
Property owners in our area already have water problems.
Wells often must be deepened or replaced. Marion County has
designated much of the area as a “Sensitive Groundwater
Overlay” zone. Water-restricted areas are not suitable for large
developments.
But that’s exactly what Measure 37 is opening the door to. 
In our community, a subdivision for forty-two home sites has
been proposed and is moving forward on groundwater limited
farmland in the south Salem hills.
Because we are groundwater-limited, the Measure 37 claimant
(Leroy Laack) was required to prepare a Hydro Review of
groundwater adequacy – to prove that the subdivision’s 
42 wells wouldn’t harm existing wells.
And even though the Hydro Review was failed by an 
independent water expert hired by Marion County, the 
subdivision development is allowed to go forward. 
This is why we need Measure 49. Measure 49 only
allows up to three home sites in areas with limited
groundwater.
Even then, neighboring wells might be harmed. But three is 
a lot better than the 42 wells the Measure 37 claimant wants to
drill. And if we don’t act now, by passing Measure 49 this
November – it will be too late – the subdivision will be 
developed. 
We represent more than thirty homeowners who support the
Keep Our Water Safe Committee. They’ve contributed much
time and effort to fight this serious threat to our groundwater. 
Many of our neighbors voted for Measure 37. Now they
regret that decision and strongly support Measure 49.
They’ve seen how Measure 37 takes away the rights of existing
property owners.

Here’s a small sampling of the hundreds of Measure 37
development projects from timber companies, developers 
and others …along the road to the Coast.

…ALONG HIGHWAY 26
West of Highway 26, Manning
331 acres zoned for forest use
Intent: Subdivision into five-acre lots
Highway 26, Buxton
1,163 acres zoned for forest use
Intent: Subdivision into five-acre lots
South of Highway 26, Banks
89 acres zoned for forest use
Intent: 100-lot subdivision
…ALONG HIGHWAY 18
Highway 18, southwest of McMinnville
349 acres zoned exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision for residential and commercial uses
Northwest of Highway 18, Willamina
117 acres zoned farm-forest use
Intent: Subdivision into 23 five-acre lots
Otis, Lincoln County
182 acres zoned forest use, exclusive farm use, other
Intent: Unspecified development
Southwest Yamhill County
445 acres zoned for forest use
Intent: Unspecified development
South of Highway 18, east of Lincoln City 
1,175 acres zoned for forest use
Intent: Subdivision into 40 to 80 acre residential lots
…ALONG HIGHWAY 20
East of Highway 20, Philomath
417 acres zoned for forest use
Intent: Subdivide into 83 residential lots
Eastside of Highway 20, Toledo
61 acres zoned for forest use
Intent: Subdivide into 19 lots
Highway 20, east of Toledo
190 acres zoned for forest use and exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision
Highway 20, east of Toledo
37 acres zoned for exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision into 16 lots

Remember, if Measure 49 doesn’t pass now, 

there will be nothing to stop this 
and other disfiguring development!

(This information furnished by Brian Hines, Keep Our Water Safe
Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

(This information furnished by Shannon Mills.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

DO YOU EVER DRIVE TO THE OREGON COAST?
One of the great pleasures in Oregon is driving to the Coast,
through the rolling fields, the coast range and the natural 
wonder that is Oregon. 
It’s not just the destination – it’s the journey.
But unless we fix Measure 37 now, that journey will be
changed forever, with peaceful hills and fields replaced 
by massive housing subdivisions and strip malls developed
through Measure 37 claims. See for yourself at
www.yeson49.com/maps.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
30 | State Measures

Argument in Favor

OUR SOUTH WILLAMETTE VALLEY: 
LAND OF FARMS OR SUBDIVISIONS?

There is wonder in every part of Oregon. 
But there is no part of Oregon that offers a better example of 
the great tradition that makes this state special - The southern
part of the Willamette Valley has it all: incredible diverse 
agriculture and forestland. Spectacular wilderness, wild rivers,
and a sportsmen’s paradise. 
Every one of these things is under direct threat from the 
uncontrolled development that has been unleashed by the

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

abuses of Measure 37. It’s yet another example of why 
Measure 49 is so important.
And we’re just in the nick of time – Unless we pass
Measure 49 this November, it will be too late and this
development, and more, will go forward. We won’t be
able to stop it.
Here are just a few examples: 
Location: Creswell, Lane County
546 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 157-lot subdivision
Location: Highway 20, Corvallis
135 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 220-lot subdivision
Location: Dimple Hill, Corvallis
160 acres
Current zoning: forest use
Intent: 74-lot subdivision
Location: North end of Dimple Hill Road, Corvallis
100 acres
Current zoning: forest use
Intent: 50-lot subdivision
Location: Ingram Island Road, Benton County
803 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision
Location: Gap Road, Harrisburg
656 acres
Intent: 250+ lot subdivision
Location: Diamond Hill Drive, Harrisburg
1,102 acres
Intent: 1,102-lot subdivision
Location: Marcola Road, Springfield
900 acres
Current use: farm and ranchland
Intent: 180-lot subdivision
Location: along Willamette River in Eugene
1400 acres
Intent: 300 unit subdivision, commercial use
Location: Lorane Highway, Eugene
315 acres
Intent: 65-lot subdivision
(Information provided according to most recent data available
as of Aug 20, 2007.)

(This information furnished by Ashley Miller.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Measure 49 stops the nightmare for neighbors – 

like me and you.

I am not against my neighbors in the rural farming portion of
Lane County using their land to build a few homes.
Which is why I didn’t think Measure 37 was such a big deal
when it passed in 2004. I assumed that it would allow limited
and reasonable alternatives for the state’s property owners. 
So imagine my surprise when I found out that a Measure 37
claim would be used to put 157 new homes on 515 acres just
beyond my backyard, with no consideration for water sources,

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
31 | State Measures

transportation infrastructure, pollution or the neighbor’s
property rights
I was shocked again when I found out that the owner of the
property got the green light to move ahead, optioned the 
property to out-of-town developers and moved away to a new
home in Eastern Oregon. 
We never thought this would happen here. People around the
state need to know that, unless we pass Measure 49, our 
nightmare could become theirs. 
Measure 49 means that developers like this would only be able
to build three homesites unless they prove that zoning actually
devalued their property – in which case they could get up to ten. 
Without the modifications that Measure 49 provides, 
Measure 37 is an invitation for development where it doesn’t
belong….next time it could happen next to your home.
And for those who say they want a different solution? We don’t
have time. If we don’t fix Measure 37 now – at this November’s
election, this kind of massive development of subdivisions will
go forward all across rural Oregon. We won’t be able to stop it.

Support measured growth—Join me in voting 

“YES” on 49!

Kristi Holaas, Creswell

(This information furnished by Kristi Holaas.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Benton and Linn County Farmers and Ranchers 

ask you to vote 

Yes on Measure 49.

In order to Save Our Farmland please vote yes on
Measure 49.
Measure 49 restores balance to the quality of life and helps 
protect our farm family’s way of life.
Your “Yes” vote on Measure 49 would undo the disastrous 
consequences of Measure 37, which represents a grave threat
to our farm- and forest-land economy. Measure 49 will limit
waivers to residential use — no commercial or industrial.
A surprising amount of farm and forest land in Benton and 
Linn Counties is threatened by measure 37 claims. Land that is
uniquely productive and growing diverse products for our 
farm families. The prime forest land in the Coast Range and 
The Cascades worth billions to our economy and employment
for thousands.
Measure 49 does not repeal Measure 37. But it does fix
the flaws of 37: delivering on the promises made to small
individual property owners while preventing the most 
egregious abuses of huge housing subdivisions, commercial
and industrial development, destruction of prime farmland and
forests, and threats to water supplies that families depend on.
Measure 49; our chance to protect what is special about
Benton and Linn Counties.
Up to three houses will be allowed on high-value farm and
forestland and in groundwater-limited areas. Claimants must
follow existing land-use regulations. Every Measure 37
claimant could build one house, regardless of location. Waivers
would be transferable under Measure 49.
The 2007 Legislature, after numerous public hearings
statewide, worked hard to address the concerns of Oregonians.
Measure 49 is the result of their efforts and deserves a “Yes”
vote from everyone who values the land that supports us all.

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Protecting the rights of Benton and 

Linn County farm families.

(This information furnished by Paul Korash, Benton County Farm
Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

My Vote for Measure 37 was a Mistake

In 2004, I voted for Measure 37 because I thought it was a vote
for the little guy. But now I know that I made a terrible mistake.
I voted for Measure 37 because I understood it was for families
to provide for immediate family members. I didn’t know it was
going to allow big timber corporations to turn forestland that
doesn’t even have a home on it into large subdivisions.
That’s NOT what I voted for. And now I’m experiencing
it first hand.
My husband and I live on 44 acres of productive farmland in
Linn County. We grow grass seed and hay and raise goats. 
We also grow a variety of vegetables that we sell to local 
restaurants. Our house has been on this special spot of land
since the 1880’s. 
Our land is bordered by one of the thirty-one Measure 37 claims
filed by Timber Services Inc. This large timber company wants
to take 4000 acres of Linn County forest land and turn it into
large housing subdivisions. 
Subdivisions are not good neighbors for farms. We’re very 
concerned about the impact on our groundwater. Increased
traffic around animals and farm equipment is a public safety
concern. Productive timberland should remain as a natural
resource, not converted to subdivisions just because a timber
company can make more money as a developer.
Measure 37 goes too far. It has opened the door to massive
development on some of our most valuable land. 
And if we don’t fix it this November, it will be too late –
development will begin and we won’t be able to stop it. 
Measure 49 will fix Measure 37, protecting rights of small
property owners while preserving valuable farm and forestland
for future generations.
Please join us in voting YES on Measure 49!
Jan & Pete Boucot

(This information furnished by Jan Boucot.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Like Oregon Cherries and Pears?

Measure 37’s attack on the Hood River Valley

Measure 37 was sold as a way for a property owner to build a
few homes on their land for their kids or their retirement – if
they could do so when they bought it.
Measure 37 has brought so much more – claims for 
development for enormous subdivisions destroying 
high-value farmland. Of course, once we lose farmland to
development – we never get it back. 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
32 | State Measures

Here are just some of the over 7,500 Measure 37 claims filed –
threatening the viability some of our state’s most productive
farmland – our cherry and pear orchards.
23.5% of all land zoned exclusive farm use in Hood River
County is under a Measure 37 claim. (source: Hood River
County Planning Department “Hood River County Summary of
Measure 37 claims”)
Location: Redwood Road, Hood River
# of acres: 137
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 338-lot subdivision
Location: Webster Road, Hood River
# of acres: 52
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 212-lot subdivision
Location: Eastside Road, Hood River
# of acres: 273
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 360-lot subdivision, other residential and commercial
development, a golf course
Location: Billings Road, Parkdale
# of acres: 250
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 648 quarter-acre lot subdivision, four 20-acre lots
Location: Baseline Drive, Parkdale
# of acres: 171
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 286-lot subdivision
Location: Punch Bowl Road, Dee
# of acres: 152
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 347-lot subdivision
Location: Ackerman Road, Odell
# of acres: 30
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 128-lot subdivision
Location: Lacy Drive, Pine Grove
# of acres: 188
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 216 quarter-acre lot subdivision, 30 1-acre lots, 16 
5-acre lots
Location: Wells Drive, Van Horn
# of acres: 39
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 126-lot subdivision
(Information provided according to most recent data available
as of Aug 20, 2007.)

(This information furnished by Bryan Shanafelt.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

This voter made a mistake, urges “YES” on 49
I moved to the Hood River Valley three years ago because 
of its vibrant agricultural character and natural beauty. 
As a New Jersey transplant, I appreciate how Oregon has 
intentionally preserved local farming and agriculture. 
States like New Jersey cannot compare to Oregon— they lost
most farmland long ago. 
But I also recognize that families should have certain land
rights, including transferring property to family members and

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

the ability to sell a reasonable portion for investment. Thus, I
voted for Measure 37 in 2004.
But now I see how I was mistaken.
Just look at the vast amounts of farmland and forests specified
for subdivisions and other inappropriate development
demanded in the more than 7,500 claims filed under 
Measure 37. 
Farmland and forests in Oregon are the major target for this
development – nearly 600,000 acres of it. 
Timber companies who want to become land speculators, and
other large-scale developers seeking commercial gain—not 
the families I thought I was helping—stand to gain from much
of this proposed development.
Measure 49 lets us achieve what people intended —to
help families.
It allows up to three homesites to be built on land if the owners
could do so when they bought it. It enables these types of
claims to proceed immediately to the regular development
process.
Interests of big business and land speculators who 
simply want to make a fast buck should not undo what
makes the Hood River Valley, and Oregon, unique and
economically viable. 
Let’s not lose the beauty of this region and our way of life to
profiteering.
Join me in voting “YES” on 49. Let’s get it right!

Michelle Rabin, Hood River County

(This information furnished by Michelle Rabin.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

And under the category of 

“You’ve got to be kidding me…”

There are thousands of Measure 37 claims that threaten our
farmland, forests, water and neighborhoods. But some are
even more outrageous than others. Just some examples:
Location: Falls City, Polk County, 62 acres
Current zoning: farm-forest mixed use
Intent: Go-cart track, motorcycle track, mud bog, “defensive
driving education”
Location: French Prairie Road NE, St. Paul, Marion County
293 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Operation of a gun-club/rifle range/paintball park, 
residential subdivision
Location: SW Vandermost Rd., Beaverton, Washington County
132 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Landfill expansion, transfer station addition
Location: Wilson River Highway, Washington County
Current character of area – residential
Intent: Storage of cargo containers and tractor trailers, outdoor
parking of five or more vehicles
Location: South Nowlens Bridge Road, Molalla, Clackamas
County, 25 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Private Paintball Park, playgrounds, and campgrounds

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
33 | State Measures

Location: Directly adjacent to a Girl Scouts camp, 
Wallace Creek Rd, Springfield, 158 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision into 31 lots
Compensation demanded: $2.45 million
Location: Deschutes and Crook counties
# of acres: N/A
Intent: Installation of electricity transmission towers up to 
80 feet tall
Compensation demanded: Crook: $74,906,000.00; Deschutes:
$168 million
ROCK BLASTING
At least 25 M37 claims were filed statewide asking for quarries
or mining operations, including: (source: PSU/IMS database)
Location: NW Bacona Road, Washington County, 305 acres
Current zoning: forest use
Intent: rock quarries/rock pit
Location: Lava Bed Drive, Parkdale, Hood River County
51 acres
current zoning: Forest use
intent: mineral extraction
Location: Jacksonville Reservoir Road, Medford, Jackson
County, 157 acres
current zoning: Forest use
intent: Mine sand, rock, shale, gold from property
Location: North Widow Creek Road, Otis, 113 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Crush, screen, process rock
(Information provided according to most recent public data
available.)

(This information furnished by Terri Steenbergen.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

PROTECT OREGON’S HUNTING HERITAGE

VOTE YES ON 49

In Oregon we are blessed with wildlife habitat that sustains big
game like elk, deer, cougar, black bear, and big horn sheep.
Unfortunately, poorly-planned development allowed by
Measure 37 threatens to destroy and hamper access to
much of the critical winter range that this wildlife needs
to survive.
Measure 37 claims span 750,000 acres across Oregon—on
mostly forest and farmland. Over 4,000 subdivisions could
result from these claims, permanently destroying the habitat
that big game needs to survive.
If we don’t act to fix the flaws of Measure 37, we’ll 
lose much of the big game that make Oregon’s outdoors
so unique. Here are just a few of the claims that Measure 37 
loopholes have unleashed:

• A highway rest area, public tourism center, and RV camp-
ground with gift shop, convenience store and restaurant
on open space conservation in Southern Oregon;

• Subdivisions and commercial development on open space

conservation land in Jefferson County;

• Commercial development and subdivisions on over 

6,000 acres in Jackson County;

• Loss of protected big game habitat to residential

development on over 800 acres in Union County;

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

• 142 condos, town homes, and houses on open space 

conservation land in Douglas County.

Argument in Favor

The Oregon Division of the Izaak Walton League of
America supports Measure 49 because it provides the
responsible conservation necessary to sustain healthy
wildlife populations for future generations. Measure 49
will protect the habitat that sustains our big game and other
wildlife from development into housing tracts, strip malls, and
big box stores, while protecting Oregon families’ rights to build
a few homes on their land.

Please Protect Oregon’s Hunting Heritage by Voting

“YES” on Measure 49

(This information furnished by Dawn A. Olson, Oregon Division, Izaak
Walton League of America.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Union County Farm Bureau asks you to vote yes on
Measure 49
Union County Farm Bureau is made up of over 180 farming and
ranching families. We are part of Oregon Farm Bureau which
has roots back to 1919 and which represents over 8,000 farm
and ranch families across Oregon. We’re an organization that
works to find positive solutions to the challenges facing family
agriculture in Oregon.
Measure 49 is a road map to get us past the current conflict.
Right now there is conflict and confusion, and seemingly 
endless court cases over competing interpretations of the law.
This kind of uncertainty undermines communities, families,
and certainly small businesses as we all plan our futures.
Measure 49 brings back some much-needed balance and 
certainty. The questions under the current situation are as 
endless as the lawsuits. Measure 49 answers those questions
and it resolves other issues that otherwise will likely be battled
out in the courts. Measure 49 will help us move past these 
conflicts and get on with our lives and businesses.
Maintaining Oregon’s family farm land is key to the quality of
life of all Oregonians. The ground being worked by farm and
ranch families across our great state is a major economic driver
for our local communities. Family agriculture also fuels jobs in
transportation, at our ports, in processing, marketing, and
retailing in every corner of Oregon both urban and rural.
Family farming provides social benefits and environmental
advantages including wildlife habitat. We’re proud of the many
contributions we make to the quality of life in Oregon. But 
ultimately, family agriculture can’t exist without land to farm.
Measure 49 helps move us past the conflicts. Please join
us in voting yes on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Matt Insko, president, Union County
Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

NORTHEAST OREGON –ANOTHER COLORADO?

Measure 37 was sold as a way for a property owner to build a
few homes on their land for their kids or their retirement – if
they could do so when they bought it.
But Measure 37 has also brought claims for development for
enormous housing subdivisions, strip malls and even big-box
stores - destroying high-value farm and ranchland, as well as
forests, and in areas with severe water problems.
Here are a sample of the hundreds of Measure 37 claims
for massive development across northeastern Oregon.
You can help stop this inappropriate development before it’s
too late – by voting YES on Measure 49.
Location: Meachum, Umatilla County
# of Acres: 14,265
Intent: Subdivision into one-third-acre lots for residential and
commercial development
Location: Milton-Freewater, Umatilla County
# of acres: 18
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Commercial use by “large retailer”
Location: Highway 11, Milton-Freewater, Umatilla County
# of acres: 19
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: “Big-box” retail
Location: North Powder River Lane, Union County
# of acres: 2,482
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 450-lot subdivision
Location: Clear Creek Road, Baker County
# of acres: 16,078
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Unspecified development 
Location: Lakeshore Drive, Joseph, Wallowa County
# of acres: 586
Current zoning: Rural Residential
Development Intent: Higher density residential development
Location: Wallowa Lake Highway, Joseph, Wallowa County
# of acres: 1,600
Intent: Subdivision
Claimant: RY Timber Company
(Information provided according to most recent data available
as of Aug 20, 2007.)

(This information furnished by Christine Lewis.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Protect Eastern Oregon – Vote Yes on 49

My name is Gary Rhinhart and I live in Pendleton Oregon. 
I am a fourth generation dryland wheat farmer on lands 
homesteaded in 1860 by my family.
In my service to the Umatilla Basin Watershed Council and
Umatilla County Planning Commission, I have listened 
carefully to many citizens. Many are concerned that Measure 37
was not intended to provide for large developments. I believe
the true intension was to permit long time landowners to 
construct a single-family home on their property.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
34 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

There are multiple claims for large development filed on 
exclusive farm use lands that adjoin my farm. Many others are
in the same situation.
We must consider the impact to all property owners and their
right to preserve an existing way of life.
The consequences of Measure 37 raise numerous concerns for
the citizens of Oregon. I understand that the people want the
right to do as they wish with their own property. It is just not
that simple.
Development belongs inside urban growth areas –
which will continue to happen if we fix Measure 37 by
passing Measure 49. Large-scale development outside urban
areas requires infrastructure expansion – like roads, fire and
police protection, and schools – that will create tremendous
cost burdens for our cities and counties.
In addition, there are environmental impact and safety threats
from development to already fragile systems:

• Large-scale developments may be proximate to salmon

and steelhead bearing water quality limited streams.

• Adequate groundwater is not always available to support

additional wells.

And, underdeveloped rural roads are intended for limited 
use and are not suitable for increased demand without 
compromising public safety standards. 
Thirty years ago, Oregon was a courageous leader. We
promised to protect it precious land resources for future
generations. It is our responsibility to ensure that the
legacy continues. 
I urge you to join me in voting YES on Measure 49 and
restore balance and fairness.

(This information furnished by Gary W. Rhinhart.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

WHAT ARE TIMBER COMPANIES UP TO?

Who really benefits from Measure 37?
8 of the top 14 contributors to the 2004 Measure 37
Campaign were timber companies that then filed M37
claims ((Money in Politics Research Action Project
report, 4/19/2007) to eliminate existing forests and
replace them with:
A sample includes:
Stimson Lumber Company
Location: Lincoln, Tillamook, Clatsop, Columbia, Washington
counties, 50,552 acres zoned forest use
Intent: Residential subdivisions
Powers Ranch Company
Location: Curry and Coos counties
11,629 acres zoned forest use, exclusive farm use, other
Intent: Residential subdivisions
Timber Service Company
Location: Linn County, 7,006 acres
Intent: Residential subdivisions, lodging, recreational
South Coast Lumber Company
Location: Curry County, 2,000 acres
Intent: Unspecified development
RY Timber Company
Location: Joseph and Wallowa counties, 1,600 acres
Intent: 160-lot subdivision 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
35 | State Measures

Morgan & Engel Inc.
Location: Douglas County, 1,328 acres
Intent: 173-lot residential subdivision
Davidson Industries
Location: Lane County, 1280 acres
Intent: Unspecified development
Avison Lumber Co.
Location: Clackamas County
1,166 acres zoned forest use, mixed use, exclusive farm use
Intent: 385-lot residential subdivision
Menasha Corporation
Location: Coos and Douglas counties, 942 acres
Intent: Residential subdivisions
Rosboro Lumber Company
Location: Lane County, 894 acres
Intent: Unspecified development
Miami Corp.
Location: Lincoln County, 689 acres
Intent: Unspecified development
L & H Lumber Co.
Location: Douglas County, 404 acres
Intent: 200-lot residential subdivision 
Aaron U. Jones (owner of Seneca Jones Timber Co.)
Location: Deschutes Co., 400 acres zoned exclusive farm use
Intent: 121-lot subdivision
Indian Hill, LLC
Location: Josephine County, Jackson County
318 acres zoned forest use
Intent: Unspecified development
Zip O Log Mills
Location: Lane County, 314 acres
Intent: Unspecified development

(This information furnished by Michael Dennis.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

YES ON 49

MEASURE 49: PROPERTY RIGHTS WE CAN ALL SUPPORT
MEASURE 49:

• ALLOWS ANY PERSON WHO QUALIFIED FOR A 
MEASURE 37 CLAIM TO DEVELOP UP TO THREE 
HOMESITES;

• ALLOWS UP TO TEN HOMESITES IF JUSTIFIED BY THE

PROVEN LOSS IN VALUE CAUSED BY REGULATIONS
WHICH PREVENTED DEVELOPMENT;

• DOES NOT PERMIT COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL

DEVELOPMENT;

• PROTECTS EXISTING FARMLAND BY ENCOURAGING

CLUSTERING OF HOMESITES.

Measure 49 corrects the problems in Measure 37.
Measure 37 currently:

• Allows people who bought property in the 1970’s to now

build anything they want, anywhere they want, regardless
of current zoning laws;

• Gives no rights to the neighbors who are harmed by the

unexpected development;

• Removes any predictability regarding what kind of land

use can end up right next to you.

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

In Marion County alone, over 473 Measure 37 claims filed could
eat up over 26,000 acres. Many of these claims are for large
housing subdivisions. Some of these claims are for gravel
mines and industrial use.
PEOPLE WHO VOTED FOR MEASURE 37 DID NOT EXPECT:

(This information furnished by Gary Kish; Donna Matrazzo, Sauvie Island
Conservancy.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

• Their wells to be threatened;
• The entire landscape in which they live or farm to be

changed dramatically;

• To discover they have no say in the matter and be told by

County Commissioners their concerns have no merit;

• Their taxes would be raised to pay for the roads, schools,

etc., needed for these new developments.

Statewide, 7,500 claims have been filed involving 750,000
acres. This includes the demolition of the pear orchards in the
Hood River Valley, billboards on state highways, and 
destination resorts next to national scenic monuments.
FRIENDS OF MARION COUNTY urge a “Yes” vote 
on M 49.
Friends of Marion County
P.O. Box 3274
Salem, OR 97302
http://www.FriendsOfMarion.org

(This information furnished by Roger Kaye, Friends of Marion County.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Sauvie Island - Yes on Measure 49
Just downriver from Portland, 24,000-acre Sauvie Island is a
unique rural area and community. The northern half is a wildlife
area managed by the Oregon Department of Fish & Wildlife.
The southern half includes thousands of acres of beautiful
prime farmland -- a vital resource -- adjacent to an urban area.
Sauvie Island is famous for its wildlife and year-round outdoor
recreation. Its woodlands, waterways, beaches, and vegetable
markets have so much to offer. It is a favorite place for 
birdwatchers and waterfowlers, runners and dog walkers, 
bicyclists, boaters and kayakers, photographers and painters,
nature lovers, hikers, runners, boaters and anglers, U-pick
enthusiasts, and, of course, family pumpkin picking outings.
Sauvie Island nourishes body and soul, people and wildlife. It’s
an amazing place, one of Oregon’s treasures -- worth saving
from over-development.
Measure 49 -- Remedy for an Emergency
Measure 37 development claims have already been filed on
more than 750 acres of Sauvie Island – and more will follow if
Measure 37’s mistakes aren’t corrected.
Sauvie Island, as you know and enjoy it, could become a fond
memory as subdivisions take the place of farms and open
spaces, and large houseboat developments change the face of
our waterways.
Measure 37 harms communities and needs to be fixed - now.
Measure 49 offers the smart compromise. Farmlands may have
a few additional houses but will not become subdivisions.
A YES vote on Measure 49 will help remedy the enormously
expensive impacts of Measure 37 on Sauvie Island and
throughout Oregon.
Protect your property and community from over-development -
VOTE YES on Measure 49.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
36 | State Measures

• We have long term farm plans for our crops.
• We don’t turn on a switch everyday and say it is

store front.

time to farm.

Argument in Favor

Jefferson County Farm Bureau Supports a Yes on 49
Jefferson County is the home of specialty seed crops.
We raise 80% of the “baby carrot” seed for the US and
40% of the world seed crop. We are also home to 80% of
the mint tea leaf production in the US and 25% of the
world production.

• Farming is an industry and our farm ground is our

• They aren’t making anymore farm ground…once a

farm is gone it will never be back.

We can deal with Mother Nature, farm prices and 
practices…but we must have farm ground to stay in
business. A critical mass is necessary. In Oregon there are
seven recognized farm areas for high value crops: Willamette
Valley, Gorge, Southern Oregon, Union, Malheur, Klamath 
and Jefferson County’s North Unit area in Central Oregon.
These are precious areas that raise different crops and
over time have adapted to what crops they raise and will 
continue to adapt as long as there is farm ground.
Do you want sprawling subdivision as the new crop in
the country or do you want to protect the farm ground
and keep agriculture viable for another 150 years?
Oregon was founded on it agriculture and timber so now is the
time for Oregonians to make a choice to keep Oregon viable for
farming, ranching and forestry and reap the benefits of the 
vistas and views when driving throughout Oregon as well as
enjoying the seasonal local crops from your own farmers.
The impacts of M37 are real and if M49 isn’t passed to
fix the fatal flaws the 7,500 claims will just be the
start…farmers that didn’t file claims will be able to as
the critical mass disappears to keep farming viable.

(This information furnished by Mickey Killingsworth, Secretary-
Treasure, Jefferson County Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Oregon AFSCME Council 75 represents over 23,000 working
people across Oregon. We have members in both state and
local government and the private sector and care deeply about
the nature and fate of Oregon. We represent the city and county
planners across the state and the folks that protect citizens from
ill-planned and short-sighted development.
AFSCME —the American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees—supports the middle ground solution
that Measure 49 represents. It continues to protect the property
rights of individual landowners but stops the “get-rich-quick”
schemes of large-scale development with no regard for the
communities they exploit.
Measure 49 is a solution to the problems caused by the 
unintended consequence of 2004’s Measure 37. Local 
governments are overwhelmed with the daunting problems
caused by Measure 37. There have been over 7,500 claims

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

under Measure 37 across the state, which affects more than
750,000 acres of Oregon and could cost Oregonians $15 billion
if all those claims are paid out. Measure 37 has become about
timber companies creating condominiums instead of 
replanting our natural resources and rock blasting operations
too close to homeowners. These were never mentioned 
when we voted for Measure 37. Let’s protect the rights of 
individuals—but not give a windfall of profits to timber 
companies and land speculators.
Measure 49 protects Oregon’s farmers and farmland. While it
allows farmers to construct homes on their property, it controls
development that would endanger limited water supplies and
the livelihood of those farmers.
Measure 49 does NOT allow big box stores and large housing
subdivisions to exploit a law meant to protect the small 
individual landowner.
Measure 49 DOES allow small individual landowners the right
to build three houses on their property if it was allowed at the
time they purchased the property.
Please vote YES on Measure 49 and protect Oregon.

(This information furnished by Joe Baessler, Oregon AFSCME 
Council 75.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

YES ON 49!

DON’T BE FOOLED AGAIN BY MEASURE 37 ADVOCATES!
IF MEASURE 49 PASSES, TAXPAYERS AVOID…
• Billions in demands for payment
• Massive tax debt for street and water system improvements
• Huge subdivisions, industrial and commercial development

in inappropriate locations

• Damage to sensitive lands and watersheds
• Destruction of irreplaceable farm and forest land.
SUPPORT OF MEASURE 49…
• Allows for compatible land uses and fast-track approval of

small developments

• Protects water availability
• Protects neighbors of claimants from harmful development
• Honors voter’s intent to give development rights to family

• Protects working farms and families
• Protects forest land from destruction
• Prevents the loss of millions of dollars in vital farm and forest

members

income

regulation

• Preserves property values through stable zoning and 

• Provides method for determining loss of land value for 

purposes of compensation

• Brings land use fairness back to all Oregonians.
REMEMBER…
IF MEASURE 49 FAILS, MEASURE 37 AUTOMATICALLY WILL
GO INTO EFFECT…
• Creating unfair land classes and special privileges for a few
• Creating huge financial burden on taxpayers
• Requiring payment of billions or permitting the destruction

of our environmental assets

• Allowing return to Wild West days of NO land use protection
• Causing the loss of property values and incomes.
MEASURE 37 HOLDS ALL OREGONIANS HOSTAGE!

Measure 37 forces the public to either pay up or put up with
harmful development.
Measure 49 is the antidote.
We can’t afford to let greed destroy the Oregon we are proud to
call home!
Preserve Oregon - The Land of Eden!
Paid for by CityWatch of Salem, a land-use watchdog 
organization since 1994.
P O Box 3602
Salem, Oregon 97302

(This information furnished by Mary L. Kamppi, CityWatch of Salem.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Vote Yes for Measure 49

Measure 49 will be fair to everyone,
and still protect Oregon’s farm land,

forest lands and natural areas for

future generations.

WE ARE YOUR

LINN & BENTON

COUNTY
NEIGHBORS

Kathy Butler
Mary D. Deems
T. R. Deems
Bodie Dickerson
Dale Dickerson
Janet Doerfler
Al Dorgan, President Local 7150 USW
Glenda Fleming
V. Roger Gaither
Julia May Garland
Sharon Gisler
Loyd Henion
Peter Kenagy, Kenagy Family Farm, Inc.
Gordon L. Kirbey, Jr
Wendy Kirbey
Sharon Konopa, Albany City Councilor
Steve Konopa
Cory Koos
James Lawrence
Linda J. Lawrence
Dick Olsen, Albany City Councilor
Gloria M. Olson
Marilyn Peterson
John Puma
Donald W. Rea
Elizabeth N. Rea
Dan Thackaberry, Farmer

(This information furnished by Sharon Konopa, Linn-Benton Yes on 49,
PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
37 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Favor

NORPAC FOODS SUPPORTS BALLOT MEASURE 49
As a food processor in Oregon, NORPAC has a long tradition
of land stewardship and support of sustainable management 
of farm land. We believe in and support a strong statewide 
land use planning system. The direction of Ballot Measure 49 is 
consistent with these long held principles. Measure 49 is a 
better choice for Oregon’s agricultural economy because it will
help restore our commitment to protection of world class 
productive farm lands that are important to our future 
productivity.

• It will keep more farm land available to grow the most 
prolific diversity of high-quality fruits and vegetables 
anywhere in the world.

• It will provide more stability for farmers and neighbors

whose future plans were suspended pending 
development decisions on nearby lands.

• Passage allows Oregon to focus on new ways to maintain
farm land and to help family farmers meet the challenges
of producing safe and wholesome food of the highest
quality.

• Measure 49 respects Oregonians’ sense of fairness about
the lost use of property while reducing conflicts with rural
farm land.

• It will also limit the most egregious development schemes.
Though it does not fix all the predictable ills of Measure 37,
it is a much better choice for Oregon than living with a
poorly conceived law that breaks our commitment to
being good stewards of our natural resource heritage.

George Smith, President & CEO
NORPAC Foods, Inc.

(This information furnished by George Smith, CEO, NORPAC Foods Inc.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

You Can’t Pave it Over Every Generation.

Vote Yes on Measure 49 and help drag Oregon out of the

morass caused by the misleading promises and failed policy
behind Measure 37.

Since its passage three years ago, Oregon has been besieged
by over $15 billion dollars in demands to develop over 750,000
acres of forest and farmland throughout the state. Out-of-state
developers and large timber companies have subverted the will
of the people and are using Measure 37 to coerce the state into
caving to their unreasonable demands. Under Measure 37, the
state would go bankrupt using your tax dollars to pay these
unreasonable demands. Instead, it has waived the laws that
protect the property values of all Oregonians.

As a wise elder once said “you cannot pave it over every 

generation.” Our clean water, forests, and high-yield farmland
are legacy for future generations. These land speculators see
$$$$ where most Oregonians see a legacy that we are known
for nationwide.

Measure 37 was intended to help small landowners build 
a house or two on their land and pass these homes on to their
family members. Instead, greed has plagued the system and
the pride of this state: rich agricultural lands, working forests,
and pristine coastline are being exploited. Developers are 
seeking to do so on-the-cheap while everyone else suffers.

There is light at the end of the tunnel – Measure 49. Many
people who voted for Measure 37 have seen this light. The
property owners who just wanted to build a home for their 
family will get that and the true hardships will be cured. Help
set us on the right course to fix this mess. Help protect your
property rights and the legacy of forests, farmlands, and
groundwater for the future. Vote YES on Measure 49.
Endorsed by Pat Wheeler (Friends of Polk County) and
Mitzi Wheeler (Friends of the Molalla River).

(This information furnished by Jonathan Graca, Hood River Valley
Residents Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Protect the Public Treasury & Ensure Just
Compensation

Using the Constitution, the biggest Measure 37 backers

encouraged voters to provide just compensation to landowners
when government enacts land use regulation. What does it
mean to be justly compensated? And how do we determine a
reduction in value when community-based laws benefit and
burden us all?

Claimants have demanded huge sums of money based on
inconsistent and unfair calculation methods. In turn, the state
has failed to confirm whether these demands accurately reflect
the loss in value and has been providing claimants exactly what
they have demanded!

The voters’ intended to provide for true hardships. Instead,
Oregon faces demands for billions of dollars without proof of
loss. Many Measure 37 claimants have chosen to exploit the
new law by demanding subdivisions, strip malls, gravel pits
and unsustainable development on farm and forest land. These
demands threaten to overtax water supplies, pave valuable
farm land and increase fire risk.

Time and again, the highest courts of this nation have

rejected the notion that land use laws have reduced property
values. As top economists have shown, the public collectively
bears the burdens and enjoys the benefits of a community-
created land use system. In many cases, we actually enjoy an
increase in value. The problem with Measure 37 is that it
allows compensation for a select few at the expense of many
and fails to preserve your right to a livable community. This
harms our constitutional right to ensure that government does
not giveaway all our resources from the public treasury by
waiving laws that protect Oregon as a whole.

Measure 49 provides a uniform and accountable system for
calculating compensation and a relief valve for true hardships
and stops those who seek to abuse Measure 37. Vote yes to 
set Oregon back on track towards livability, just compensation
and fairness for all!
Endorsed by Pat Wheeler (Friends of Polk County) and
Mitzi Wheeler (Friends of the Molalla River).

(This information furnished by Jonathan Graca, Hood River Valley
Residents Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
38 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Favor

Mayors and city leaders from throughout Oregon, urban and
rural, Democrat and Republican, support Measure 49.
Measure 49 helps protects cities from massive developments
outside of city limits.
Measure 49 fixes “unanticipated consequences” of 
Measure 37, allowing individuals to build homes, but limiting
huge developments.
Measure 49 restores balance by helping small property 
owners.
Measure 49 is right for Oregon
Create certainty. Protect your city
Vote YES on Measure 49
A list of Mayors who support Measure 49:
Harold L. White, Mayor of Aumsville
Rob Drake, Mayor of Beaverton
Charles C. Tomlinson, Mayor of Corvallis
Jim Fairchild, Mayor of Dallas
Kitty Piercy, Mayor of Eugene
Richard G. Kidd, Mayor of Forest Grove, Oregon
John McArdle, Mayor of Independence
Dale De Long, Mayor of Island City
James W. Lewis, Mayor of the City of Jacksonville
Judie Hammerstad, Mayor of Lake Oswego
Lori Hollingsworth, Mayor of Lincoln City
James Bernard, Mayor of Milwaukie
Thomas C. Bauman, Mayor of Mt. Angel
Alice Norris, Mayor of Oregon City
Virginia Carnes, Mayor of Pilot Rock
Craig Dirksen, Mayor of Tigard
Brad Boyd, Mayor of Sisters
Charlotte Lehan, Mayor of Wilsonville

(This information furnished by John McArdle, City Leaders of Oregon
PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

The Oregon Chapter of the American Institute of Architects 
represents individuals from throughout the state who depend
on development and construction. We believe Measure 37 has
been an attack on the orderly development that is important for
the quality of life enjoyed by Oregonians. Measure 49 restores
balance between the rights of individual property owners and
the broader welfare of the community.
MEASURE 49 RESTORES STABILITY OF PROPERTY VALUES
Would you buy a home if you knew that someone could build
anything they wanted next door? Many Oregonians now face
the shadow of uncertainty created by potential uncontrolled
large developments adjacent to their homes and 
neighborhoods. Property owners who are now exempt from
any regulations can impact the value of your home and entire
neighborhood. Before Measure 37, land use regulations 
provided stability for our property values. Measure 49 will
restore reasonable controls on inappropriate large commercial
and residential development.
MEASURE 49 IS FAIR TO ALL PROPERTY OWNERS
Measure 49 grants special rights to longtime property owners
while halting the land rush into Oregon’s farmlands and natural
areas. Most large Measure 37 claims have been from large 

timber, mining, and development interests who are interested
in large scale development without environmental regulation.
These large companies are poised to reap huge rewards while
taxpayers foot the bill for roads and infrastructure to support
uncontrolled development.
RESTORE THE VISION THAT HAS MADE OREGON SPECIAL
Oregon architects strive every day to create vibrant urban areas,
liveable communities, and sustainably designed buildings. 
We owe much to an earlier generation of leaders from across
the political spectrum who created Oregon’s visionary land use
planning laws. Measure 37 has been a wrecking ball to that
vision. Measure 49 creates fairness to property owners while
preserving Oregon’s system of land use planning that has
become a model for the nation. 
PLEASE JOIN US IN VOTING YES ON MEASURE 49
American Institute of Architects Oregon Chapter

(This information furnished by Tom Pene, AIA, President, American
Institute of Architects Oregon Chapter.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

American Heart Association/
American Stroke Association
Urges You to Vote “YES” on 49

Protect Public Health

How and where Oregon communities grow has an obvious
impact on our future. It also has a significant impact on our
health.
Poorly-planned growth caused by Measure 37 forces 
people to drive everywhere—even for simple errands.
Clackamas County alone estimates an increase of at least
400,000 vehicle trips a day from the far-flung development 
proposed through Measure 37 claims.
Poorly-planned sprawl development due to Measure 37 means
more driving and less walking and biking, which correlates to
higher rates of obesity and heart disease. The American Heart
Association/American Stroke Association supports well-
planned communities because it knows that residents will be
healthier as a result. 

Unchecked development unleashed by the 

flaws of Measure 37 undermines zoning laws 

that protect our health.

Protecting public health is an important consideration of the
rules that govern how we plan for growth. Reducing the need
for automobile trips means a healthier future for us, our 
children and grandchildren. 
Measure 49 will help promote active healthy 
communities and prevents development that could 
hurt public health.

Protect Oregonians’ Health

Vote Yes on Measure 49

(This information furnished by John Valley, American Heart Association/
American Stroke Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
39 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Favor

Washington County Farmers and Foresters Urge a 

YES Vote on Measure 49

As farmers and foresters, we treasure Oregon’s scenic forests,
wildlife habitats and open green spaces. We take pride in the
diversity of crops grown throughout Oregon and we are proud
to provide Oregonians with locally grown agricultural products.
But all that could change if the fatal flaws of Measure 37 are not
fixed. Instead of growing crops and timber, our resource lands
are destined to become massive subdivisions.
Here are the facts we are facing in Washington County:

• 902 Measure 37 claims have been filed.
• 73,899 acres are covered by these claims (115 square

miles).

• Claims on 56,287 acres are for housing subdivisions (the

equivalent of 5 Beavertons).

• Claims for development cover 70,370 acres of existing

farmland and forests.

• Stimson Lumber Co. has submitted claims for 

subdivisions that would be larger than the city of 
Forest Grove.

These facts show us that Measure 37 allows much more 
large-scale development than we were told as voters in 2004.
This is destructive to commercial agriculture not only in
Washington County, but throughout the state as well. Other
Willamette Valley counties particularly hard hit by Measure 37
are Benton, Lane, Linn, Marion, Polk and Yamhill. These six
counties face claims on 167,000 acres (nearly the size of two
Portlands). Across the state, Measure 37 claims will take 
hundreds of thousands of acres of farm and forest land 
permanently out of production.
Measure 49 is our last chance to protect Oregon’s farms and
forests from the large-scale commercial and residential 
development allowed under Measure 37.
Please join us in protecting Oregon’s quality of life and natural
resources by voting YES on Measure 49. 
Keith Fishback, farmer
Eric T. Sahnow, farmer
David A. Vanasche, farmer
Marie P. Finegan, farmer
Larry Duyck, farmer
Edmund Duyck, farmer
Terry Peters, farmer
Tad VanderZanden, President, Washington County Farm Bureau

(This information furnished by Tad VanderZanden, President,
Washington County Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Gearhart, Clatsop County, 25 acres zoned residential
Intent: Residential development onto beach, in violation of the
Public Beach Law
Hallstrom Road, Tillamook, 137 acres zoned exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision in 100 residential lots
Otis (all of it) Lincoln County
182 acres zoned forest use, exclusive farm use, etc.
Intent: Unspecified development
North Widow Creek Road, Otis, 113 acres
Intent: Rock crushing operation along Widow Creek
less than 1 mile from Salmon River
Bayview Road, Waldport, 862 acres
Intent: Residential subdivision
HIGHWAY 101 - SOUTH COAST
These are among the largest development claims. Numerous
small claims will likely make as large an impact or greater:
building large homes or condos blocking scenic vistas or 
disrupting the character of local communities.
Cape Blanco, Port Orford
722 acres zoned beaches and dunes conservation, forestry
grazing, shoreland protection
Intent: 150-lot subdivision, hotel, parking lots, two golf courses,
equestrian park
Hwy 101, Gold Beach, 1,610 acres zoned forestry, grazing etc.
Intent: Residential subdivision, hotels, hospitals, commercial
retail, destination resort
Sixes, Curry County, 3081 acres
Intent: Residential subdivision
Powers, Coos County
8604 acres zoned exclusive farm use, forest use
Intent: Subdivide into 864 lots
Along South Slough of Coos Bay, Cape Arago Highway,
Charleston, 236 acres zoned forest use, farm-forest use
Intent: Residential development, retail, hotel
Coquille, Coos County
1231 acres zoned forest use, exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivide into 10-acre residential lots
Sea Lion Caves, Florence
119 acres zoned park and recreation, natural shorelands
Intent: Residential and commercial development
Florence, including land along Siuslaw River and South Inlet
Slough, 1,040 acres zoned forest use
Intent: Residential subdivision
Claimant: Davidson Industries (timber company)

Stop the paving over of the Oregon Coast 

before it’s too late.

Vote Yes on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Elizabeth Carey.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Argument in Favor

Measure 37 and the Oregon Coast:

Ouch!

Here are just a few claims for development that would change
the Coast– forever.
HIGHWAY 101 – NORTH/CENTRAL COAST
Astoria, Clatsop County, 203 acres zoned exclusive farm use
Intent: Single-family/multi-family residential and industrial
development

Vote Yes on 49 – Protect Oregon

Oregon is facing what will go down as its biggest 
challenge in history—that of the random and unplanned
development invited by Measure 37. That’s why I, a fifth
generation Oregonian, and my wife are supporting Measure 49.
Measure 49 doesn’t repeal Measure 37 but we think it is the best
compromise that can be expected. Without the modifications
Measure 49 brings to Measure 37, it is just a matter of time

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
40 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

before wide swaths of Oregon’s forests, farmlands and
watersheds are ruined.
We, along with our neighbors, face a typical scenario for people
living next to Measure 37 claims. 
A timber company that owns land adjacent to us is demanding
to convert more than 300 acres of timberland—about a square
half a square mile—into a subdivision. This development,
which we have no reason to doubt will proceed as laid
out in the claim, will help destroy the rural Siltcoos
watershed that also provides drinking water for the
area.
Timber companies decades ago encouraged counties to 
implement the forest use zonings that they now are seeking to
have waived via Measure 37. The companies have benefited
from both the ability to cut and sell timber, as well as from a
reduced property tax rate associated with lands zoned for forest
use.
Changing the rules of the game in this way is not what
Measure 37 was supposed to be about. Measure 37 was
advertised simply as a way to help individuals who wanted to
build a few homes on their land—NOT AS A GREEN LIGHT 
FOR LARGE BUSINESS INTERESTS TO EXPLOIT OUR LANDS,
OUR OREGON!
I urge you to consider the consequences of Measure 37. 
Please join us in voting “YES” on Measure 49. It restores
a land use system that ensures balanced growth.

Rand and Kathryn Dawson, Westlake, Oregon

(This information furnished by Rand Dawson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Association of Northwest Steelheaders, 
Oregon Council of Trout Unlimited, and 

Northwest Sportfishing Industry Association

VOTING “YES” ON 49 WILL SAVE SALMON AND STEELHEAD
Measure 37 threatens to degrade salmon and steelhead
habitat throughout Oregon with poorly-planned 
development along our spectacular rivers, streams, 
and coastal estuaries. 
Most of the 7,500 claims for development on 750,000 acres in
Oregon are on forest and farmlands.
Measure 37 threatens the estuaries and streams that support
salmon and steelhead fishing as part of Oregon’s heritage.
The flaws of Measure 37 have unleashed claims for:

• 150 housing units, a 250-room hotel, parking lots, and 
two golf courses at the mouth of the wild Sixes River—
threatening one of the greatest natural estuaries
remaining on the Oregon Coast, adjacent to two
state parks;

• Development along the Nehalem River, Nestucca River,
Sand Creek, the Little South Fork of the Kilches River, the
Salmon River watershed, and the Siletz River;

• 1,040 acres—including development along the 

Siuslaw River or South Inlet Slough—by timber 
company Davidson Industries;

• 5,500 acres of unspecified development at the 

confluence of the Deschutes and Crooked rivers
with Lake Billy Chinook.

• Just two claims for 20,000 housing units in the rural

Klamath Basin—exacerbating demand for water in a
region already dealing with shortages.

Development of streamsides makes fish more vulnerable
toxins, parasites and disease by increasing water temperatures
and reducing water oxygen levels.
Habitat destruction caused by Measure 37 threatens
fish runs that sustain commercial and sport fishing economies
and that are at the heart of what makes Oregon special.
We can’t let our salmon and steelhead fall prey to 
large subdivisions, and commercial and industrial 
development of our natural resource lands. 

Protect our forests and water supplies that 

sustain our salmon and steelhead
VOTE “YES” on MEASURE 49

(This information furnished by Phil Donovan, Association of Northwest
Steelheaders.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

1000 Friends of Oregon Supports Measure 49
For over 30 years, 1000 Friends of Oregon has joined with 
citizens across the state to enhance the quality of life we all
enjoy as Oregonians. We work to protect family farms and
forests, conserve our natural resources and scenic areas, and
build livable urban and rural communities. 
Oregon has seen many changes over the years, but one thing
remains constant: what unites us as Oregonians is far
stronger than what divides us. Ranchers in eastern Oregon
are as concerned about clean and adequate water supplies as
residents of the Oregon coast. Those who live in central Oregon
are just as worried about the effects of sprawl and unmanaged
growth as are Portland-area residents.
That’s why Measure 49 is so crucial to Oregon’s future.
Measure 49 fixes the flaws of Measure 37. Measure 37 has
given large timber companies special rights to turn thousands
of acres of forestland into huge housing subdivisions. 
Measure 37 has given developers special rights to dig up 
precious farmland for strip malls, gravel pits and billboards.
Increased sprawl, traffic congestion, and loss of valuable 
farmland are NOT what voters had in mind when Measure 37
passed. That’s not how Measure 37 was sold to voters.
That’s why we need Measure 49. A YES vote on 
Measure 49 will fix the Measure 37 mess.
A YES vote on Measure 49 gives Oregon a responsible, 
common sense approach to planning. It balances the interests
of small landowners with those of their neighbors and the local
community. Measure 49 will ensure the fairness Oregonians
want.
As Oregonians, we are proud of our history of responsible 
land use planning. A YES vote on Measure 49 continues the
Oregon legacy for our children and grandchildren.
Please join 1000 Friends of Oregon in voting YES on
Measure 49!

(This information furnished by Bob Stacey, 1000 Friends of Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
41 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Favor

Douglas County’s family farmers ask you to vote yes on
Measure 49
Real family farmers say yes on 49
The phrase “family farm” is being used a lot in the debate 
over preserving Oregon’s farms, forests, and water. Only one
organization represents the breadth and depth of Oregon’s
family farms, and that’s Farm Bureau. With Oregon roots back
to 1919, Farm Bureau is a true grassroots organization 
representing nearly 328 farm families in Douglas County and
over 8,000 farm families statewide.
Measure 49 fixes flaws
Measure 49 takes a comprehensive approach to addressing the
major issues that Measure 37 left unaddressed. These include
transferability, clarifying that a spouse at the time of purchase
of the land in question has rights even if he or she was not
named on the deed, and it allows a reasonable number of
homes to be built. Without Measure 49, simple questions like
these will clog the courts and go unanswered for years to come.
Measure 49 protects our Oregon home
We are a state where the family farm remains the rule. 
Measure 49 protects that heritage by allowing reasonable 
numbers of homes to be built but not big-box stores or strip
malls. Oregon’s family farmers are able to provide economic
benefits like tens of thousands of jobs, quality of life benefits
such as open space and ready availability of a wide variety 
of fresh fruits and vegetables close to town, and environmental
benefits such as wildlife habitat. The key ingredients that 
allow farmers to continue providing these benefits include
land, water, labor and reasonable regulatory and marketplace
conditions. The first ingredient is land.
Restore balance by voting yes on Measure 49
Measure 49 answers questions left by flawed initiative petitions
of the past. It answers those questions in a way that balances
the need for land in agriculture with the needs of families who
wish to build homes on their land. 

(This information furnished by Rick Epp, president, Douglas County
Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

that allow unchecked large-scale development. Without
Measure 49, widespread development within exclusive farm,
forest, and natural areas will establish the conditions and
precedent for more development, thereby further undermining
our land use planning system. 
The quality of life in Oregon has never been more in the
balance. We urge a “YES” vote on Measure 49.
David A. Leslie, Executive Director, Ecumenical Ministries of
Oregon
The Rev. Kent Harrop, President of the Board, Ecumenical
Ministries of Oregon, McMinnville
The Oregon Center for Christian Values

(This information furnished by Jenny Holmes, Ecumenical Ministries of
Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

PROTECT THE CHARACTER OF OUR COMMUNITIES

VOTE “YES” ON 49

Dear Oregon Voters,
We join in the support of Measure 49 because it is our 

responsibility to uphold the mission of the Architecture
Foundation of Oregon. That mission states that we 
“advocate the enhancement of our built environment, 
the livability of our communities, and preservation of our 
rich architectural heritage.”

Support of Measure 49 is one of the clearest and most 

expedient ways we can uphold this mission.

Measure 49 will enhance our built environment by 
clarifying the right of families to build homes on their 
property.

Measure 49 will sustain the livability of our 

communities by protecting the forests, farmlands 
and rivers that surround our large and small cities, 
making Oregon the unique and special place that 
we all cherish.

Argument in Favor

Religious Leaders Support Measure 49

Oregon’s farmlands, forests and natural areas are central to our
state’s livability, prosperity, and uniqueness. Measure 49 is 
a much-needed corrective to the flaws of Measure 37,
so that Oregon’s lands may continue to be a blessing to
future generations. As people of faith, we believe that the
land is a gift from God, entrusted to our care and stewardship
for the benefit of the common good.
The principles of many great faith traditions call us to love 
our neighbors as ourselves and to care for the Earth. Therefore, 
the actions of an individual landowner should not jeopardize
the health and well-being of neighbors and communities. 
In Oregon, land use planning has evolved as a system to ensure
fairness while protecting the values that bring us together. 
If left unmodified, Measure 37 will cause scattered islands of
incompatible uses in prime farm, forest and natural areas, 
making it difficult for many family farmers to stay in business,
as well as threatening water supplies and wildlife habitats. 
Measure 49 keeps the intent of Measure 37 by clarifying
and streamlining the process for small-scale residential
development, and closing the loopholes in Measure 37

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
42 | State Measures

Measure 49 will preserve our rich architectural heritage

by protecting the settings in which many of Oregon’s 
architectural treasures exist.
Please vote Yes on Measure 49.
Sincerely,
ARCHITECTURE FOUNDATION OF OREGON
Arthur W. Johnson, President
Carol Mayer-Reed, FASLA
G. Jane Jarrett, Executive Director
Board of Directors:

Jonah Cohen, AIA
Omid Nabipoor

Martha Peck Andrews, FAIA
Linda Barnes, FAIA
Kathy Shaloo Berg, AIA
Philip Beyl, AIA
Tom Braden
Tom Cody
Linda Czopek
Kent Duffy, FAIA
Bart Eberwein
Susan Stevens Emmons

Gaafar Gaafar
Jacklyn L. Hallock
Patrick C. Harrington
Neal Huston, AIA
Kevin Johnson, AIA
Nawzad Othman
Steve Poland, AIA
Bart Ricketts
Kurt Schultz, AIA
Richard Spies, AIA

www.lookaroundoregon.com

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

(This information furnished by Arthur W. Johnson and Gloria Jane
Jarrett, Architecture Foundation of Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Please join Lane County farm and ranch families and
vote yes on Measure 49
At the base of the Willamette Valley, Lane County farms 
produce many of Oregon’s most treasured products: hazelnuts,
berries, dairy, grass seed, tree fruit, wine and many more.
What makes these products possible is the same thing that 
contributes greatly to Oregon’s quality of life: Minimizing 
conflicts over land uses. With clear ground rules and a fair
process, we can avoid creating conflict. That approach is part 
of our heritage.
Unfortunately, the unanswered questions created by 
Measure 37 are sparking more and more conflicts. More court
challenges. More disputes between neighbors. More 
uncertainty. The rules are not at all clear, and there are so many
unanswered questions that many more conflicts are certain 
to arise. Without a fix, these conflicts will plug the courts for
years to come. Without a fix, countless Oregonians won’t have
the certainty they need to make plans for their families, their
homes, and their small businesses.
Luckily, we have Measure 49. Measure 49 addresses these
unanswered questions. It clarifies the ground rules and the
qualifications. Also important, it allows a reasonable number 
of homes to be built in agricultural areas without destroying the
land base that farm and ranch families depend on. We could
wait years for the courts to sort through all these disputes, but
we don’t have to wait. Measure 49 puts the power to fix these
problems in your hands. You have the power to vote yes and fix
what’s wrong.
Over 400 farm and ranch families make up Lane County Farm
Bureau. Our purpose is to ensure that family agriculture 
continues to be a vital part of Oregon life. That vitality depends
on the availability of farm ground, and minimizing conflict in
and around farm zones. Measure 49 helps us accomplish all of
these.
Please join us in voting yes on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Donna Corwin, president, Lane County
Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Oregon’s Conservation and Environmental Community

Urge a “YES” Vote on 49

Oregonians share a steadfast commitment to the responsible
stewardship of Oregon’s natural legacy. After all, we only
have one Oregon, one home, to defend. 
To defend our home, please join us in voting “YES” on 49.
Measure 49 protects Oregon’s farms, forests, and water 
supplies, as well as the rights of families to build a few homes
on their own property.
It fixes flaws in Measure 37 that allow large housing 
subdivisions, big-box stores and strip malls where they don’t
belong. 

For example, a Measure 37 claim has been filed at the mouth 
of the wild Sixes River—perhaps the greatest natural estuary
remaining on the Oregon Coast. The claim threatens wild
salmon and steelhead habitat with 150 housing units, a 
250-room hotel, golf courses, and parking lots on land in a
beach and dune conservation area. 
Other examples include the claim to place a pumice mine 
inside the Newberry National Monument, as well as claims for
massive development on Steens Mountain, Mt. Hood, along
many rivers and streams and up and down the Oregon Coast. 
Go to www.yeson49.com and see the literally hundreds of
examples like these, across the state, in which Measure 37 is
being abused by speculative developers and timber
companies in ways that will permanently rob our 
children of their natural legacy.
While most areas of our country have lost farmland, forests and
natural areas to development, Oregon has preserved the places
that make our state special. Measure 49 is a critical chance to
restore balance to Oregon and our last chance to save many of
these areas for future generations.
Yes on Measure 49. Protect Our Home – Oregon.
Audubon Society of Portland
Environment Oregon
Friends of the Columbia Gorge
Kalmiopsis Audubon Society
Oregon Conservation Network
Oregon Environmental Council
Oregon League of Conservation Voters
Oregon Sierra Club
Oregon Shores Conservation Coalition
WaterWatch of Oregon

(This information furnished by Sybil Ackerman, Oregon Conservation
Network.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Central Oregon: How would you like to grow?

That’s the question on this November’s ballot.
Measure 37 has generated claims for large subdivisions and
commercial development across swaths of Central Oregon
where they are currently not allowed.
Measure 49 amends Measure 37 by limiting this large 
development: It allows landowners who want to add a few
homesites to do so, if they could when they bought their land.
And in an area with water shortages, it’s just common sense 
to grow more gradually.
Measure 49 also prohibits using a Measure 37 claim to site an
industrial or retail commercial development.
Subdivisions and strip malls? Or farmland, forest and deserts?
You decide
Here are just a few of the claims for development
Measure 37 would bring to Central Oregon:
Location: Knott Road, Bend, Deschutes County, 223 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Resort with horse ranches, golf course, 60 to 80-lot 
residential subdivision
Location: West Evergreen Avenue, Redmond, 815 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Destination resort, including residential units, lodging,
commercial development, sewage treatment facilities.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
43 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Location: French Road, Prineville, 1,741 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 2,640 half-acre lot subdivision
Location: Newsome Creek Road, Post, Deschutes County
15,464 acres
Intent: 3,092-lot subdivision
Location: 1200 Bull Boulevard, Prineville, 4,404 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivide into 1,003 residential lots
Location: Ashwood, Jefferson County, 6,240 acres
Intent: Destination resort, including residential subdivision and
commercial development.
Location: Lake Billy Chinook, Jefferson County, 5,512 acres
Intent: Unspecified development
Location: Belmont Lane, Madras, Jefferson County, 752 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: 244-lot subdivision
Location: Maupin, Wasco County, 1,051 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Surface mining, “dude ranches,” hunting and fishing
lodges, conference areas, residential subdivision, etc.
Location: Dufur Valley Road, The Dalles, Wasco County
4,074 acres
Current zoning: exclusive farm use
Intent: Subdivision into 200 20-acre “ranchettes”
(Information provided according to most recent data available
as of Aug 20, 2007.)

(This information furnished by Lynn Greenwood.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Help Protect Our River.
Vote Yes on Measure 49.

As retirees, my husband and I live in Oregon’s beautiful Illinois
River Valley where we enjoy the quiet and rural character of the
area. We live along the Illinois River, and we cherish its clean
waters and friendly community. Here, people can still swim,
and salmon and steelhead still spawn.
We live here because unlike many parts of the country,
Oregon has preserved its forests, farmland and land
along rivers and water. That’s important to us and to
future generations. We never imagined that Oregon
would lose this. But now a proposed development
through Measure 37 on the Illinois River will forever
undo this special place.
And if we don’t fix it now – this November – it will be 
too late.
A local resident is proposing to build a commercial enterprise
with a store, parking lot, and arena on his property by the river.
The state has approved the claim because of Measure 37. 
This project threatens to generate fecal pollution and fertilizer
directly into the Illinois River, threatening the recreational
opportunities families enjoy and the wildlife habitat native fish
need to survive.
And public drinking water may be threatened as well; our city’s
public water intake is directly downstream from this proposed
development.
Our story is not unusual. Many Oregonians like us support the
rights of families to build a home or two on their land – and that
is protected with Measure 49. But we oppose the excesses and

abuses of Measure 37 that allow commercial business uses
where they don’t belong.
Help keep our rivers and drinking water clean! Please
support Measure 49.
Thank you,
D. Hover-Kramer 

(This information furnished by Dorothea Hover-Kramer.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Developers make the profits – 

and taxpayers get stuck with the bill.

Measure 49 will keep large developers from

shifting their costs to taxpayers.

We all value public services in our communities – from reliable
police and fire protection to safe roads, sanitation and water
supplies.
And we all pay for those services through local property taxes
and user fees. We are willing to pay our fair share. But we
expect others to pay their fair share as well.
Under Measure 37, that’s not going to happen.
Our cities and counties can barely afford to keep our police 
and fire departments properly equipped, our bridges and roads
in good repair, and our water and sewer systems up to basic
standards for health and safety.
New subdivisions and sprawling developments will make
things worse.
If we continue to allow large developers to use 
Measure 37 like a bulldozer over our rural lands, they’ll
make a quick profit, but we’ll end up footing the bill –
either in higher taxes or fewer services.

• Think of the costs of building safe new roads to far-flung

housing developments on what is now farm and forest
land.

• Think of who pays when our cities and counties have to

add police and fire coverage to reach distant housing
tracts.

• Think of who loses if we have to extend water and sewer

lines to new developments and can’t maintain the systems
we have now.

Balance growth is important: We want to enjoy livable 
communities. But we want to make sure that all of us can afford
to pay for the services that our communities require.
Measure 49 will rein in developers who are pushing for
massive subdivisions on hundreds of thousands or acres
of what is now rural land.
Measure 49 will discourage expensive, large 
developments that shift costs to us taxpayers.
Measure 49 will keep our communities livable and
affordable – before it’s too late.

Vote Yes on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Rachel Grant.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
44 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Favor

To produce and publish sound evidence on the question of
whether land-use regulations in general cause economic loss in
land value, the Gray Family Fund at Oregon Community
Foundation funded two independent studies
The first was the June 2007 report by two OSU professors,
Jaeger and Plantinga, How Have Land-use Regulations
Affected Property Values in Oregonconcludes: “Our analysis of
Oregon land value data finds no evidence of a generalized
reduction in value caused by Oregon’s land use regulations, a
result that is consistent with economic theory and with
research in the economics field”. Other excerpts are:
“Land values (adjusted for inflation) have generally risen 
since the introduction of Oregon’s land use planning system in
1973, both for rural lands zoned for farm use and forest use 
and for developable lands both inside and outside the urban
growth boundaries”. --- “The data presented here do not, 
therefore, support the belief that Oregon’s land-use system has
systematically reduced the value of restricted properties…
Oregon’s land-use planning system is not intended to limit the
amount of development that occurs, but rather it is intended 
to influence the location of development in ways that are 
consistent with various land-use planning goals”.
The second study published in June 2007 by the Georgetown
University Environmental Law and Policy Institute,
Washington, D.C. – Property Values and Oregon’s Measure 37–
reached similar conclusions:
“A comparison of statewide agricultural land values in Oregon
and (California and Idaho) shows that Oregon experienced
comparable, and generally somewhat higher, rate of 
appreciation as its neighbors, again despite Oregon’s stricter
regulation of rural development”.
These research studies have convinced me to urge a Yes vote
for M-49 to help preserve our state’s nature and health. Please
vote Yes and thank you.
John D. Gray
Retired Chairman, Omark Industries; Developer of 
Salishan, Sunriver, Skamania Lodge and Johns Landing

(This information furnished by John D. Gray.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

The Gray Family Fund of the Oregon Community Foundation
funded work by the Institute of Metropolitan Studies, 
Portland State University, to compile, analyze and publish 
information about the number, type, and county of 
7,462 Measure 37 claims filed between December 2004 and 
March 12, 2007. This information may be reviewed at
http://www.upa.pdx.edu/IMS/currentprojects/m37/index.php.
All claims show the number of acres affected and the county.
The vast majority of claims also show how the land is zoned,
and the kind of land division the claimant demands. Estimates
of what all the 7,462 claims will do, based on the proportion of
claims which do specify zoning and division type, shows the
following:

3,153 claims (42%) seek 1-3 home sites.
4,309 claims (58%) seek subdivisions on farm and forest land
averaging between 128-154 acres.
61% of the farmland subdivision claims are in Willamette
Valley, mostly on “high value” land.

Measure 49 fixes Measure 37 in at least two ways. First, M-49
helps the “little guy” by approving 1-3 lot claims without proof
of loss, and by giving transferability which M-37 did not.
Second, M-49 limits subdivisions on high value land and in
groundwater restricted areas to 3 lots. On other lands M-49 
limits subdivisions to 4-10 lots, based on proof of loss which
must be shown by an appraisal.
These and other facts have convinced me to support M-49. If
you want to modify M-37 to help the little guy and to limit big
subdivisions on Oregon’s best farm and timber land. I urge you
to vote Yes on M-49.
John D. Gray
Retired Chairman, Omark Industries
Developer – Salishan, Skamania Lodge, 
Sunriver and Johns Landing

(This information furnished by John D. Gray.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

When our forests are gone, we’ll never get them back.

Protect our forests.

Vote Yes on Measure 49.

Forests have always been a special part of Oregon’s natural
heritage, and they can continue to be a special part of Oregon’s
future – if we vote Yes on Measure 49.
When properly managed, forests provide habitat for fish 
and game, year-round recreation and jobs that sustain local
communities.
But claims filed under Measure 37 threaten to turn tens of 
thousands of prime forest land into housing subdivisions and
commercial projects, each of which will require roads, water
lines and utilities that will magnify their impacts on the land.
Once our forests are gone, we will never get them back.
We have seen that happen in other parts of the country.
We don’t want to see it happen here.
Measure 49 will protect private forest lands for both
recreation and forestry.
Forest land owners are given new protections under 
Measure 49 to protect their investments far into the future.
When we are fair to forest owners, we provide greater 
incentives to manage our forests for sustainable yields and
maximum benefits for all Oregonians. 
That’s the reason we provide special designations for forest
land.
Measure 49 will keep those designations in place and protect
our forests for generations to come. 

Protect our forests. Protect our future. 

Vote Yes on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Carly Jean Birkey.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
45 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

• They are isolated from fire stations and other services.
• They are often in places at risk for wildfires.
• These areas have limited water supplies, and housing

developments could drain them even further. It’s very hard
to put out a fire without enough water.

It would be very difficult, and in some cases perhaps
impossible, to provide adequate fire protection for the
kinds of large development Measure 37’s loopholes are
now allowing. And to the extent that we can, it will be very
expensive – an expense that will be born by local property 
taxpayers.
Measure 49 will protect the rights of landowners to build a few
houses on their land, if the law allowed them to when they
bought it. But it will also help us protect you, by preventing the
wrong kind of development in the wrong kinds of places.
Roy Hari
Fire Chief - retired, Marion County Fire District 1
Larry D. Eckhardt
Retired Fire Chief, Sheridan Oregon

(This information furnished by Liz Kaufman, Yes on 49 Campaign.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Farm families in Clackamas County ask you to vote yes
on Measure 49
Sandwiched between a thriving metropolis on the valley floor
and the forested slopes of the Cascades, Clackamas County
agriculture is a great example of why Oregon needs 
Measure 49.
Clackamas County is an integral part of the Portland metro 
area and home to about 375,000 Oregonians. Complementing
that urban character is a thriving family farm economy. Farm
families in our county produce nearly $400 million in sales each
year, not including off-farm businesses like transportation, 
processing, marketing, restaurants, and retail. Blessed with
some great soils, Clackamas County is the second most 
productive agricultural county in Oregon.
Clackamas County is a virtual who’s who of beloved Oregon
products. Strawberries, Christmas trees, blueberries and 
blackberries, ornamentals and shade trees, fresh vegetables,
hazelnuts, wine, and many more Oregon farm favorites are
grown here. Clackamas County is also home to tulip-filled
fields, a sea of colors that so beautifully represents Oregon in
calendars, posters, and cards.
How can Clackamas County be such a family farm success
story? The farm answer is that we have the quality land, water,
labor, and know-how to be successful. The public policy answer
is balance. Oregon needs laws that emphasize balance among
different kinds of uses for our irreplaceable land. With balance,
family farming can continue to thrive for decades to come, in
harmony with flourishing urban areas.
Measure 49 brings balance to the heart of our public policy. It
allows a reasonable number of homes to be built in farming
areas while protecting these areas from runaway development.
A lack of balance breeds conflict. Conflict undermines the 
quality of life enjoyed by all who call this wonderful place
home. By bringing balance, Measure 49 will reduce conflicts.
We all benefit from that.
Clackamas County Farm Bureau has more than 650 farm 
families working together toward positive solutions. We ask
you to join us in voting yes on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Joe Casale, Jr., Clackamas County Farm
Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Oregon’s Fire Chiefs Urge You

to Vote Yes on Measure 49

It may seem unusual that Oregon Fire Chiefs would weigh in on
an issue like Measure 49. After all, what does firefighting have
to do with who gets to build what buildings, and where?
The answer is: it matters a lot.
Our job is to protect the structures, and the people who live and
work inside them. That job can be made much more difficult if
those structures are not built with fire protection in mind. And
even if those homes and businesses are well-built, they can be
at risk if they are built in the wrong places.
That is what is happening with Measure 37. And Measure 49
will help fix it.
Many Measure 37 claims are for massive housing subdivisions
on remote farm and forestland that are not appropriate from a
fire protection standpoint.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
46 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Opposition

We urge you to read Measure 49 very carefully before voting.
Measure 49 is not what it appears to be.
Measure 49 passed by a single vote in the Oregon Legislature. It
is poorly drafted and will lead to years of litigation and political
infighting in Salem.
The Ballot Title Is Intentionally Misleading:
What you read on your ballot for Measure 49 was not written by
the Attorney General or Secretary of State. It was not reviewed
by the Oregon Supreme Court for neutrality and objectivity. 
The legislature used a rare political trick to draft the language
using public opinion polls -- to find the most deceptive 
“political” language. Why? Because special interest groups
don’t want you to know what is really in Measure 49.
They Had To Mislead Voters To Hide The True Intent Of
Measure 49
Measure 49 will allow state and local government to take your
home and property without compensation, wiping out laws
that require government to pay fair value for what it takes.
Measure 49 Repeals Your Vote On Measure 37
Section 4 of Measure 49 repeals your vote on Measure 37 and
replaces it with a complex process for property owners, which
experts say will not work, and opens property owners up 
lawsuits, fees, and years of frustration. The most offensive part
is that Measure 49 was forced through the Legislature without 
a single public hearing!
Implementing Measure 37
Our job this session was to implement your overwhelming
votes supporting Measure 7 and Measure 37 to protect 
property owners. The Legislature ignored your votes, invented
a crisis, and sent you Measure 49 – forcing you to vote a third
time!
Measure 37 can be fairly implemented without stealing your
property – but Measure 49 is not the answer. Please join us in
voting No on 49.
Senator Larry George

Representative Bill Garrard

(This information furnished by Senator Larry George and 
Representative Bill Garrard.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 49 HURTS FAMILY FARMERS – PLEASE VOTE NO
The Oregon Family Farm Association PAC asks you to vote
NO on Measure 49.
Current Oregon law requires government to pay you fair value
when it reduces the value or takes away your right to use your
property -- a core protection for property owners. Measure 49
guts these basic protections for our property and life-savings.
Measure 49 is a radical change to state law that allows the 
government to take your property without any compensation.
We rely on our property for our livelihood, and unlike large 
corporate farms, every new regulation makes it harder to stay
in business.
Corporate farmers and their lobbyists got loopholes for 
themselves in Measure 49 – but small farmers and ranchers 
got left out and now face lawsuits and years of frustration if
Measure 49 passes.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
47 | State Measures

Voters asked the Legislature to implement Measure 37,
instead they manufactured a fake crisis and crafted
Measure 49.
There is no problem in Measure 37 that cannot be addressed 
by proper implementation by the Legislature. Oregon voters
passed Measure 37 in 2004, and the Legislature refused to
implement it in both the 2005 and 2007 Legislative Sessions.
The politicians refused to implement Measure 37 in order to
create a false crisis – so they could justify Measure 49’s radical
changes.
Measure 49 will have a detrimental affect on family
farmers:
Today, property owners have protection in state law. If 
Measure 49 passes, those protections will be gone. In addition:

- We will have to pay the government’s attorneys and

appraisers to get our property back;

- Those of us who have permits to build a house or two on

our property will have those permits wiped out, and be
forced to start all over;

- We will have to prove that we made $80,000 per year in

order to build a farmhouse to live in on our property.

MEASURE 49 HURTS FAMILY FARMERS – PLEASE VOTE NO

(This information furnished by Matt Cyrus, Oregon Family Farm
Association PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 49 IS BAD FOR OREGON’S ECONOMY

I am a professional economist. In my career, I have served as an
advisor for central banks, businesses, governments, and devel-
oping countries. It is my job to know how to balance economic
growth with concerns about the natural environment.
Economists know that protection of property rights is central to
the health of the economy and the environment.
Anyone who wants to take your property—whether a private
party or a government—should compensate you at the market
value of the property taken. Otherwise, uses of known value
will be lost to uses of unknown, and untested value.
I have examined Measure 49 in detail. Under Measure 49, if
your home or property is taken by a new government 
regulation, you will not receive fair compensation for the lost
opportunities. Thus, there is no guarantee that the public use of
your property has sufficient value to the Oregon economy to
offset the uses that have been lost.
If government takes $50,000 of your property for, say, open
space or views, under Measure 49 you may receive far less than
$50,000, if you receive anything at all. If a private party wanted
to buy your property for open space or views, it would have to
pay fair market value for the land. Government should have to
play by the same rules.
Measure 49 uses an arbitrary scheme to determine how much,
if anything, you will receive in compensation for taken property.
That scheme has almost nothing to do with the impact a new
government action has on the value of your property. It does
not employ accepted, valuation principles.
First year economics students learn that the economies of
many countries around the world suffer because of poorly-
protected rights to private property. Measure 49 contains policy
errors in this regard that a first year economics undergraduate
would not make.

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

We should expect more from our elected leaders. Vote NO 
on 49.

(This information furnished by Randall Pozdena, Ph. D, Quantecon
Incorporated.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Oregon Sportsmen, Hunters, and Fishermen

Urge A No Vote On Measure 49

Dear Friends:
Measure 49 could cost Oregonians their whole life-savings
when government takes their property without compensation.
Measure 49 is unfair and terrible public policy.
Oregon sportsmen work closely with Oregon property owners
to make sure we protect and promote wildlife and the 
protection of the environment – Measure 49 would completely
undermine those collaborative efforts.
Furthermore, Measure 49 would open up our property owner
partners to lawsuits from anybody in the entire United States…
a disastrous (and expensive) provision in Measure 49.
Measure 49 is so poorly drafted that it would tie-up property
owners in court for years.
Please vote against this extreme change in state law – Please
vote no on Measure 49.
Sincerely,
Glenn Cloyd
President, Oregon Sportsmen Assn.

(This information furnished by Glenn Cloyd, President, Oregon
Sportsmen Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

We are land use attorneys in Oregon. Combined, we have over
325 years of experience representing Oregonians.
We have each read Measure 49 and we all agree –
Measure 49 is a dangerous proposal that will wipe out
the property rights of those Oregon families who can
least afford it.
In our careers, we have represented government, corporations,
small businesses, environmental groups, farmers, ranchers,
industries, developers, neighborhood groups, rural residents,
urban residents, etc.
Measure 49 was drafted by legislators who know little about
land use law or who have a special interest agenda. The
Measure adds new provisions to Oregon law that fundamen-
tally change the relationship between private citizens and state
government, and weakens the rights of property owners in
ways that are so unique and unfair that they seem 
unimaginable.
If Measure 49 passes:

- State and local government will be able to pass new land
use regulations that destroy the value of your home and
property without compensation;

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
48 | State Measures

- Property owners who have followed all of the land use

rules and have received government approval to use their
property will have their approval wiped out;

- Property owners in cities will have fewer rights than 

-

property owners in rural areas;
If your property is taken and you demand compensation,
you will have to pay your attorney, your appraiser, the 
government’s attorney, and the government’s appraiser,
even if you win.

As the professionals who will have to make this new law work,
we can only tell you that Measure 49 is not what it appears to
be, will not work, and will do far more harm to Oregon property
owners than good.
Please vote NO on Measure 49.
Mark Bartholomew - Medford
William Cox - Portland
James Dole - Grants Pass
Mark O’Donnell - Portland
John Pinkstaff – Portland
John Rankin - Sherwood
Michael Spencer - Klamath Falls
Robert Swift - Newberg
Meredith VanValkenburgh - The Dalles
Joe Willis – Bend
Jeffrey Wilson - Prineville

(This information furnished by Mark S. Bartholomew; William C. Cox;
James R. Dole; Mark O’Donnell, O’Donnell & Clark LLP; John C. Pinkstaff;
John A. Rankin; Michael L. Spencer; Robert E. Swift; Meredith D.
VanValkenburgh, VanValkenburgh & Associates PC; D. Joe Willis,
Attorney at Law; Jeffrey M. Wilson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

The Oregon Cattlemen’s Association
Asks You To Vote No On Measure 49

Measure 49 is about one simple issue: Should government be
able to take your property without paying for it?
Measure 49 would allow Oregon’s state, regional, and local
governments to take your private property - and take your 
property with zero compensation for your loss. And if you
demand your property back, you will have to pay the 
government’s lawyers and appraisers to get it back – even if 
you win!
We believe that if government wants your property, then they
must pay you for it. If you agree with us, please join us in voting
No on Measure 49.
You will read rather unbelievable statements that
Measure 49 will protect farmland, forestland, and
groundwater – those statements are used to fool you.
Politicians and special interests groups used polling to find 
out what words to use to best manipulate Oregon voters.
Measure 49 is not about protecting those resources, it is about
changing the law to allow government to take your property
without compensation.
Nobody relies more on the protection of land and water 
than Oregon’s ranchers and cattlemen. We are committed to
conserve these resources and ensure that they last for 
generations – many of us are fourth and fifth generation 
ranchers.
Measure 49 undermines those efforts – if our property is not
safe from government takings, then we cannot make long-term
plans for future generations and we wipe out generations of
ranchers. Measure 49 is a direct assault on Oregon’s family

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

farmers and ranchers and traditional agriculture.
Those that support Measure 49 may think that we can be
replaced with mega-corporate farms, but we believe that 
small-scale, family-based agriculture is best for our state, our
natural resources, and our environment.
Please reject the misleading campaign and help us protect
Oregon agriculture for future generations. Vote No on 
Measure 49.
www.orcattle.com

(This information furnished by Kay Teisl, Oregon Cattlemen’s
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

The Hood River Agriculture, Forestry, and Landowner’s

Association Asks You to Vote NO on Measure 49

We are all long time agricultural and forest property owners.
Together we represent the vast majority of EFU land in Hood
River County. We own orchards, vineyards, hay fields, and 
forest acreage. We raise kids and pears and apples and grapes
and cherries and fir trees and cows. We are all farmers with
“family farms.” The next time you read in the newspaper about
agriculture in the Hood River Valley, they are talking about us.
We are also unanimously opposed to Measure 49. Why?
Because Measure 49 strips us of our most valuable commodity
– the right to control how we operate our farms and use our
land.
Today, foreign competition along with state and federal laws
are slowly combining to put us out of business. In order for us
to compete, we must be able to make changes to the way we
use our land based on economics, not how pretty the view is or
the soil type.
But Oregon’s statewide, centralized land use laws, the only
ones of their kind in the nation, prevent us from making
changes based on economics.
To them, it is all about protecting “farmland.” But no one cares
about protecting the “farmer.”
Measure 49 strips us of our property rights. It is a cruel blow to
an industry that is already struggling to stay alive. If Measure 49
passes, we will be unable to diversify our operations, and to
use our unproductive areas for higher economic uses, which
allow us to keep farming on the productive parts of our farms.
We are proud to be Americans working in the natural resource
industry. It is our hope that our children and grandchildren will
continue our heritage. But Measure 49 and Oregon’s ridiculous
land use laws make that unlikely.
Please vote NO on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by John M. Benton, Sr., Hood River
Agriculture, Forestry and Landowner’s Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Legislators ignored Oregon Voters too long and Measure 37
passed. A hidden agenda begins. First a “head fake” saying its
finally past time to rework our land use laws and SB 82 in the
2005 session authorizes a volunteer task force of 10, “The Big
Look Task Force”. With questionable support by the state, the
hard working task force appears wandering. In the process
Department of Land Use Conservation, (DLCD) Governor’s
Office, Metro, and the Task Force are receiving facts indicating
that the planning function is far more suspect than ever 
imagined. Extreme errors were cited in Metro Government
Planning. Metro which governs 40% of Oregon’s Population
had apparently frivolously extended the Urban Growth
Boundaries (UBG) especially along Mt. Hood Highway east of
Gresham also Damascus to be important sources of tens of
thousand of industrial and high technology jobs. (Metro’s Title 4
map of Significant Industrial Lands). Then Oregon’s DLCD
“acknowledges” their plans to officially meet state goals. 
ODOT even jumps in and starts spending Federal Funding to
pursue transportation studies for Metro’s exuberance. This sets
the stage for damage control. Promptly at the legislature Metro
gets the legislature to delay its 5 year cycle requirement to
review the urban growth boundary by adding another 2 years. 
I say no wonder they are clueless on how to fix their last 
mistakes let alone update the UGB. Then curiously the potential
‘whistle blowing’ Big Look Committee gets the axe. The weak
excuse is that Oregon voters are not “sophisticated enough” 
to think about more than just M-37 (i.e. Task Force puts our
intelligence on overload). Lastly, damage control makes sure
that the land use committees in the House and Senate avoid
even the routine land use problems normally addressed. Then,
finally, in the late hours with problems swept under the rug,
and under false pretenses of “clarifying”, M-37 gets a ‘hatchet’
job renamed M-49.
Robert Butler, President, Butler Brokers Inc., Commercial
Realtors

(This information furnished by Robert Butler, Butler Brokers Inc.,
Commercial Realtors.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Measure 49 has never had a public hearing.
Measure 49 is so bad, legislatures would only vote for it if it
was referred back to the voters.
Measure 49 is 24 pages of tricks and errors, including:
-If you are inside the UGB, you are guaranteed 0 lots 
(Section 9(2) “… may not exceed the lessor of…”)
(Section 9(6) “The reduction in fair market value..”) 
(see financial formula!)

-If you are outside the UGB, you are guaranteed 1 lot 

(per application, not lots owned!) Section 6(2)(c)

-If your “highest and best use” is not residential, you will 

get 0 lots; for residential or otherwise. Section 7(8)

-If you try to use the financial formula, you will fail- it was
designed that way! A CPA firm was hired to run many
examples; highest value was 1 lot, usually 0 lots. 
Section 7(6)  Out UGB    Section 9(6)  In UGB

-You can’t use the financial formula if you are in “high 
value” farm or forest (90% of buildable Clackamas,
Washington, Yamhill, etc) - OR if you are:

Section 2(c)(A) “….water irrigation”

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
49 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Section 2(c)(D) “…five acres planted in wine grapes”
Section 2(e) “Land that is exclusive farm use zone and is at

an elevation between 200 and 1000 feet above mean 
sea level, with an aspect between 67.5 and 292.5 degrees
and a slope between zero and 15 percent, and located
within….”) (5 million acres of viticulture areas!)

-Appraisal is required for financial formula. Few firms are 
willing, data is scarce, and you will be sued! Section 9(7)

-This Measure beefs up lawsuits against you; eliminates your

right to collect legal costs- even if you win!

-see our website for other examples of disqualification!

www.fix49.com

Darrin Black
Matthew L. Green-Hite, CPA

(This information furnished by Matthew Green-Hite, Fix Measure 49.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

FAMILY OWNED TIMBER COMPANY 

OPPOSES MEASURE 49

Stimson Lumber is a family owned, Oregon based company,
committed to protecting Oregon and the beauty of our state.
Our company has roots dating back to the 1850’s. We are one of
the oldest, continuously operating forest products companies
in the United States. We are proud of our Oregon legacy. 
Now, our company and our thousands of employees are being
attacked for our opposition to Measure 49. Consider what
Measure 49 will do:

• Measure 49 takes away property rights from hard

working Oregonians.

• Measure 49 allows government to reduce your land
value. It gives them unbridled authority to lower property
values. That’s just not fair.

• Measure 49 is too extreme. Not only does it take 

away rights recently given back to property owners, it
takes away all future protection you might have from 
government taking the value of your land.

• Measure 49 treats property owners different. If you

own farm or forestland, or if you live in an urban area, 
you have no rights under Measure 49.

• Measure 49 had no public input in the Legislature.

Perhaps that’s why it treats property owners unfairly.

Stimson has donated millions of dollars to charities, supports
high school apprenticeship programs where we are located 
and operates a sustainable timber program, with the goal of
protecting the environment. We would not be able to operate
five Oregon mills, providing family wage jobs, unless we were
stewards of Oregon’s valuable timber resource land.
Measure 49 is complicated, it is cumbersome, and all it will do
is create more bureaucracy, less protections of private
property and more confusion about land use regulations
in our state.
Please, join me and vote NO on Measure 49.
Andrew Miller, President
Stimson Lumber
Portland

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
50 | State Measures

(This information furnished by Andrew Miller, Stimson Lumber
Company.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

The Oregon Association of REALTORS® asks you to
please vote NO on Measure 49.
The Oregon Association of REALTORS® is the trade association
for Oregon’s REALTORS®, real estate professionals who help
Oregonians achieve the American Dream of homeownership.
We believe that property ownership is the cornerstone of our
democratic society. Property ownership allows people from all
walks of life to build economic security for themselves and their
families. 
We believe that one of the primary responsibilities of the 
government is to ensure that property owners are treated fairly.
Measure 49 is very unfair to many property owners.
Therefore, we are asking you to please vote NO.
Measure 49 replaces Measure 37, the land use compensation
measure that was passed by Oregon voters in 2004, and ruled
to be constitutional by the Oregon Supreme Court. We did not
support Measure 37, but we recognize the issues that led to its
passage.
Measure 49 would eliminate most Measure 37 claims, even
claims that have already received approval. Measure 49 ignores
the many Oregonians who relied on the existing law and spent
tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars merely following the
law. This is not fair.
The Oregon Association of REALTORS® proposed a balanced
five-point plan to the Legislature for dealing with Measure 37
that would have reduced its impact, while still being fair.
Unfortunately, this balanced plan was rejected.
Even worse, the Legislature cut funding for the Big Look
Committee, the non-partisan, non-political committee created
to recommend improvements to Oregon’s land use system. 
If Measure 49 passes, it is unlikely that there will be any
improvements to Oregon’s land use system for many years to
come.
Please vote NO on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Art Kegler, President, Oregon Association
of REALTORS.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 49 WILL SHUT DOWN OUR 

WASHINGTON COUNTY U-PICK FRUIT FARM

Jossy Farms is a family run u-pick apple, peach and pear farm
in Washington County. Every year we open our farm to 
thousands of customers who seek quality local produce.
Our 67 acre farm is zoned AF-5. This zoning allows for 5-acre
parcels, with homesites on each parcel. Under current zoning,
we can create 13 home sites, but we’d have to eliminate our 
u-pick farm.
When voters passed Measure 37, we were thrilled. Measure 37
allowed us to create smaller rural parcels that we could cluster
together. By clustering our parcels, we could use a smaller 
portion of our property and leave the orchards in place for the

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

next generation of Jossy’s to offer fruit to the public.
But if Measure 49 passes, our claim will be wiped out,
and our orchard will shut down. 
Measure 49 is just the latest in a series of blunt instruments 
that show what is wrong with Oregon’s land use planning laws.
The current planning laws force us to tear out our orchards in
order to divide our property. If we had more control over our
property, like Measure 37 provided for us, we could create the
lots for our family and keep the orchards intact as well.
It’s a win-win for everyone, except for Measure 49 supporters.
Small farmers like us, and every other farm family who want
some control over their farm operations, are called “greedy
developers” and “speculators” by the Measure 49 supporters
who don’t have the first clue about our business. It is totally
unfair, and makes us mad.
We’ve been here for generations. We want to be here for 
generations to come. But Measure 49 and ill-conceived land
use laws force us out of business. What a shame.
Please vote NO on 49.

(This information furnished by Robert Jossy and April Jossy, Jossy
Farms.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Vote NO on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Phyllis A. Wilson, President/Master,
Oregon State Grange.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

The Josephine County Farm Bureau

Asks All Oregonians to Vote NO on Measure 49!
We are farmers and ranchers in rural Oregon. Oregon’s land
use laws affect everything we do with our land. A radical
change like Measure 49 will only cause more grief, stress, and
problems as farmers and ranchers in Oregon continue to work
to make ends meet.
Measure 49 will make it nearly impossible for farm families to
continue. Under Measure 49, a farmer who wants to build a
home or two on his property for his kids is going to be faced
with:

- New requirements just to build two or three homes on 

his property;

- Paying exorbitant fees to the government just to get 

permission for his kids to live on the family farm

Argument in Opposition

The Oregon State Grange, Rural Oregonians, and 

Oregon Farmers Ask You To

Please vote No on Measure 49.

Tell the Politicians and Special Interests NO! – we have
already voted to protect our homes and property 3 times
on statewide ballot measures since 2000. How many
more times do we have to say it - Stop Trying To Take Our
Homes and Property!
Measure 49 is a deceptive Measure that makes dramatic
changes to Oregon law. 
Not only will Measure 49 allow government to take your home
and property without compensation, if approved Measure 49
will:

- allow government to change the rules after you buy your

property to take away rights that you paid for.

- allow you to be sued by anyone in the United States if you

try and defend your property from government taking. 
force you to pay lawyers and appraisers to defend 
your property, and you will also have to pay the 
government’s lawyers and appraisers who are trying
to take your property from you, even if you win!

-

-

- change the rules for people who have already received

approval to build a home or two on their property. Despite
what Measure 49 supporters claim, Measure 49 will not let
these people build a home or two on their property.
require property owners in rural areas to make $80,000
from farming for at least two years before they can build a
farmhouse on their property. 

- expose property owners in urban areas to huge financial

danger – for example, if your non-conforming home or
business is destroyed by fire, Measure 49 allows cities to
stop you from rebuilding without compensation.

This is a short list of what is hidden inside Measure 49’s 
complicated language. Measure 49 simply will not work for
anyone. We deserve better.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
51 | State Measures

- Lawsuits from people as far away from him as possible,

who simply don’t want family farms to continue in Oregon.
- Uncertainty and confusion as the courts try to make sense

of 21 pages of legalese, mistakes and confusion

Family farms face enough uncertainty in this day and age.
Measure 49 will only result in more heartache and frustration
for farm families trying to make a living off the land. Current 
law makes it easier for family farms to be passed down through
the generations. Measure 49’s burdensome and confusing 
language will result in years of litigation – years that family
farms simply do not have.
That is why the Josephine County Farm Bureau opposes
Measure 49. Measure 49 is another attack on rural Oregon by
extremists who do not approve of our way of life.
Please join the Josephine County Farm Bureau in voting
NO on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Bud Combe, Vice President, Josephine
County Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

ATTENTION ALL FARMERS AND RANCHERS
The Jackson County Stockmen’s Association

Asks You to Vote NO on Measure 49!

Some farming groups think that Measure 49 won’t hurt 
agriculture. Some farming groups don’t know how to read.
Measure 49 is full of tricks and traps for everyone in Oregon,
but there is a giant trap in Measure 49 waiting for Oregon’s
farmers and ranchers.
Section 12.(6) of Measure 49 says that any use of land as a
result of a Measure 49 claim made after June 28th, 2007 is a
non-conforming use. 
This is a HUGE wolf in sheep’s clothing.

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Imagine the Legislature passes a 50-foot streamside setback in
2009 for all agricultural uses. If that happened, farmers and
ranchers would all file claims under Measure 49, seeking a
“waiver” from the 50-foot setback rule. The state would grant
the “waiver”, which would then make the farmer or rancher’s
use of the property a “non-conforming” use.
In Oregon, a non-conforming use must be used continuously,
otherwise you lose that use of your property. In the context of
farming and ranching, this means that the property you
received a waiver for must be farmed or grazed continuously.
That means no crop or livestock rotation, otherwise you will
lose the non-conforming use that Measure 49 established on
your property.
And what happens if you lose the non-conforming use? That’s
right, you would have to abide by the 50-foot setback rule.
And under Measure 49, there is nothing you can do about it
because under Measure 49, property owners can only make
one claim. Ever.
Remember the attempt to “Fence In Oregon”, and how much
time and effort Oregon agriculture had to put in to defeat that
awful idea.
The same people who backed that measure are backing
Measure 49.
Do you have to guess why?
Please join the Jackson County Stockmen’s Association and
vote NO on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Mike Daunehauer, Jackson County
Stockmen’s Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

WHY DID THE LEGISLATURE STOP 

THE OREGON ATTORNEY GENERAL AND 

THE OREGON SUPREME COURT FROM REVIEWING 

THE “OFFICIAL” BALLOT TITLE?

Be very careful when you read the “official” ballot title for
Measure 49. Our colleagues are trying to fool you.
When you read the voters’ pamphlet or look at your ballot, you
see a ballot title for each ballot measure. The purpose of the
ballot title is to give you accurate and unbiased information
about the measure, so that you can make an informed choice
with your vote.
The ballot title is normally prepared by the Oregon Attorney
General. The public is then given an opportunity to comment
on that ballot title.
At the request of a member of the public, the Oregon Supreme
Court will then review the Oregon Attorney General’s ballot 
title to make sure it is fair and accurate. If it is not, then the Court
will ask the Attorney General to rewrite the ballot title.
This process has been in place for decades. It ensures that 
voters are not misled by politicized or inaccurate ballot titles.
With Measure 49, the legislature has completely 
ignored our tried and tested ballot title process. Instead
of allowing the Oregon Attorney General, the public, and 
the Oregon Supreme Court to perform their normal roles, the
legislature created its own ballot title for Measure 49.
The legislature then barred the Oregon Supreme Court and
Attorney General from reviewing its ballot title, and it barred
the public from challenging the ballot title.

Why did the legislature do this? Because legislative leaders
were taking polls to determine what language would be most
likely to convince voters to vote for Measure 49, not what was
unbiased and accurate.
This is shameful. That’s not what the ballot title is supposed to
do. Before you vote, please study Measure 49 and don’t rely 
on the politicized ballot title.
Representative Patti Smith
Senator Roger Beyer

(This information furnished by Senator Roger Beyer and 
Representative Patti Smith.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

HOW MANY TIMES DO WE HAVE TO TELL THE 

LEGISLATURE THAT OUR PROPERTY SHOULD NOT BE

TAKEN WITHOUT JUST COMPENSATION?

How many times do we have to vote to protect our home and
property? How many times until the legislature gets the 
message? 
As ranchers, we face all kinds of threats to our livelihood. The
one threat that we fear the most is the legislature.
After all, most legislators know absolutely nothing about our
industry and the hard work we do to provide the best product
we can to American consumers. But they make the laws that
make the difference between whether we stay in business or
lose our ranches.
In the last decade, Oregon voters have voted twice to protect
private property from being taken by government without just
compensation. These laws are very important to ranchers, as
they guarantee that our rights to farm and ranch will continue
on, provided our ranching operations comply with all health
and safety regulations.
But now, a group of politicians want to overturn our votes once
again. Measure 49 is their latest effort.
The worst part is, these same politicians refused to allow the
public to testify on Measure 49. I guess they don’t care about
what we think.
We’re really tired of being told that we don’t know what we’re
voting for. Measure 49 is a bad law. Please vote no.
Grant County Stock Growers Association

(This information furnished by James Welsh, Grant County Stock
Growers.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

As a law professor and former law school dean, I believe
that property rights are an essential part of American society.
The ability to purchase and use property in pursuit of a 
multitude of purposes drives our economy and provides
Americans with the most freedom and the best standard of 
living in the world. Property rights provide for homes, places 
of employment and recreation, and for personal privacy.
Private property is also the tax base which funds many public
services.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
52 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

This does not mean that property rights are absolute. There
must be a balance between the rights of private citizens to own
and use their property and the rights of the public to be free
from property uses that endanger health and safety. The public
must also have the authority to purchase private property for
public uses.
That balance currently exists in Oregon. Oregon law 
(ORS 197.352) protects property owners’ rights to use their
property in the way it could be used when it was acquired, but
does not allow property owners to use their property in ways
that would create a nuisance or endanger the public’s health
and safety.
Measure 49 destroys that balance. Under Measure 49, state and
local governments will be able to enact land use regulations
that take the property rights of every private property owner in
Oregon without just compensation. 
That means that your backyard can be declared “open space,”
your business property can be declared “wildlife habitat,” and
your farm can be declared a “scenic view.” 
There is nothing wrong with these choices if they are what the
people of Oregon want. But it is wrong to demand that the
property owner bear the entire cost to provide these choices.
Under Measure 49, that is exactly what will happen.
Measure 49 is a significant change in Oregon law that 
will fundamentally weaken the property rights of every Oregon
property owner. 
Jim Huffman

(This information furnished by James L. Huffman.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

OREGON EMPLOYERS OPPOSE MEASURE 49

As some of Oregon’s largest employers, we oppose 
Ballot Measure 49.
Our companies employ thousands of Oregonians throughout
the state at family wages. Each of us has been in business for
decades in Oregon. 
Our employees serve on the local school board. They coach 
little league baseball. They sit by you at church. They shop in
local stores. Their children go to public schools. They pay taxes.
In short, we are part of your community. Many Oregon 
communities were formed around our industries.
We believe that a fundamental key to a healthy economy is a
respect for the ability of every citizen to own and use property.
Without this ability, our companies would not be successful, 
we would not have jobs for our employees, and we would be
unable to serve our communities.
Measure 49 strikes at the heart of your ability to own and use
your property. That is why we vigorously oppose it.
If Measure 49 is approved, the investments we make in our
companies and our property are in jeopardy. Measure 49
allows government to take our property and businesses
without compensation. If our property is taken, so are
the jobs we provide.
What Measure 49 supporters fail to realize is that in a 
competitive global market, one regulation can wipe out an
industry. Measure 49 makes it far more likely that such a 
regulation will be adopted. 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
53 | State Measures

So while Measure 49 supporters call us names and ridicule us
for standing up for free enterprise and the right to use our 
property in the manner we could when we purchased it, we’ll
continue to do what we can to defend every Oregonian’s right
to own and use their property.
Please vote No on Measure 49.
Aaron Jones, President, Seneca Sawmill Co.
Michael Fahey, President, Columbia Helicopters
Robert Freres Jr., Freres Lumber Co. 
Joan Austin, Executive Vice President, A-dec
Steven Swanson, Swanson Group

(This information furnished by Aaron Jones, President, Seneca Sawmill
Co.; Michael Fahey, President, Columbia Helicopters; Robert Freres, Jr.,
Freres Lumber Co.; Joan Austin, Executive Vice President, A-dec; 
Steven Swanson, Swanson Group.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

ATTENTION SENIORS - MEASURE 49 WILL

RAISE PROPERTY TAXES

One of the hidden dangers of Measure 49 is the impact it will
have on your property tax bill.
Measure 49 allows government to pass new land use
regulations that destroy the value of private property.
For example, in 2004, Metro proposed to designate nearly
80,000 acres of private land in the Portland Metropolitan area 
as “wildlife habitat.” If Metro would have forced cities and
counties in the region to adopt these designations, the property
value of the thousands of private property owners who were
affected would have been drastically reduced.
For the owners of the property, the impacts would have been
devastating. Their property would have been taken with no
compensation.
But you would have paid too. Your property taxes would
have been raised to make up the difference!
That’s what Measure 49 will do – allow government to take your
neighbor’s property without just compensation and force you
to pay higher property taxes at the same time!
Measure 49 is a bad idea! For more information, go to
www.oregonwatchdog.com.

(This information furnished by Jason Williams, Taxpayers Association of
Oregon PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

If there’s only one thing that you remember about Measure 49,
remember this: If Measure 49 passes, state and local 
government can and will take your home and property
without just compensation.
Senator Ted Ferrioli, Senate Minority Leader
Representative Wayne Scott, House Minority Leader

(This information furnished by Senator Ted Ferrioli, Senate Republican
Leader; Representative Wayne Scott, House Republican Leader.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Opposition

In 1973, I voted for Senate Bill 100, the bill that created our
statewide, centralized land use system.
I knew that SB 100 could allow state and local governments to
take people’s homes and property. I hoped that would not 
happen, but was persuaded to vote yes because of Section 24
in SB 100. This section directed the legislature to find a way 
to compensate property owners for any property that could be
taken.
If you want to see for yourself, look at Section 24(4) of 
Senate Bill 100 (1973). Without that section, I would never 
have voted for Senate Bill 100.
In short, the legislature made a promise to Oregonians. 
If Measure 49 passes, that promise will be broken.
Measure 49 is an extreme response to your vote on 
Measure 37. If Measure 49 is approved, what we tried to 
prevent in Senate Bill 100 will occur – homes and property 
will be taken by state and local governments without just 
compensation.
Measure 49 supporters will tell you that Measure 49 will 
restore Oregon’s land use planning laws. But these people
weren’t in the legislature in 1973, and apparently have never
read Senate Bill 100, or choose to ignore what it says.
If Measure 49 passes, we are destroying the very balance that
we tried to make when we created Senate Bill 100. That would
be a terrible shame.
Vote NO on Measure 49.
Roger Martin
Former State Representative

(This information furnished by Roger Martin.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 49 HURTS NEIGHBORHOODS

Between 2000-2025, one million new people are expected to
come to Oregon. In some parts of the state, we’re already 
noticing the impacts:

- Long established residential neighborhoods are being 
dramatically changed, with skinny houses, condos, and
rowhouses stacked into places that used to be open
spaces or backyards;

- Traffic congestion on main roads is becoming unbearable,

and parking spaces near home are impossible to find;

- New subdivisions are being built with big homes on small

lots with no yards for kids and no privacy;

- Urban streets, water, and sewer infrastructure, designed

for fewer residents, is being torn up and replaced (at 
taxpayer expense) to handle the new apartments placed 
in existing neighborhoods;

- Neighborhoods are being gentrified, as people on modest

incomes can no longer afford the costs of living in areas
where they grew up;

- Schools in suburbs are becoming overcrowded, as people
look desperately for places where home prices are lower,
there’s a little more space, and traffic isn’t as bad.

These impacts are partly the result of our existing land use 
system. If Measure 49 passes, you can expect that these
problems will only get worse.
Measure 49 allows Metro, state government, and cities to 
take your home and property without just compensation. 
If Measure 49 passes, it will be nearly impossible to find a new
home with a large yard, a home in the country, or something
affordable for the working family.
If you live in town, look at the new developments being built.
Do you see any that have a yard, or a place to play? Are you
really being given a choice? Is there any balance? The people
that brought you the current system that forces these 
developments are trying to get you to support Measure 49.
Don’t be fooled.
Protect your neighborhood, your property, and your choices.
Vote No on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by James Karlock.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Please vote NO on Measure 49

Here we go again

I live in Medford, in your typical suburban neighborhood. I am
now retired, but for decades I served as a city and county
employee. There are several property owners in my area whose
property rights have been restored by Measure 37. 
I am asking that you join me in voting NO on Measure 49 
for several reasons. First, Measure 49 is a radical change from
the current law. My neighbors simply ask that their property
rights be restored, and I don’t think that is asking too much.
Measure 49 will take away those rights, which just isn’t fair.
Second, Measure 49 is completely unworkable. It was written
behind closed doors, without any public input. I am concerned
that Oregon’s dedicated public servants will not be able to
apply Measure 49 because the measure is so poorly written. 
When that happens, city, county and state employees often
bear the brunt of the public’s frustration for the mistakes of
politicians. Given how poorly written Measure 49 is, I am afraid
there will be many frustrated Oregonians.
Third, Oregon has a proud tradition of open and transparent
government. But the process used to draft Measure 49 was 
anything but open or transparent. In fact, the public was never
allowed to testify on Measure 49! If Measure 49 passes, I can
guarantee that in the future the public will be excluded from the
process. Oregonians cannot let that happen.
Finally, Oregonians have already spoken with one loud and
clear voice on this issue. How many times are the politicians
going to try to override the will of the people, and how many
times are we – the people – going to have to reaffirm our vote
before the politicians finally get the message?
Please join me in voting NO on Measure 49.
Ken Marshall, Medford

(This information furnished by Ken Marshall.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
54 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Opposition

PLEASE, treat others the way you would like to be treated!

In 1921, President Harding, using the Homestead Act, created

our private land. For over 35 years, this beautiful and pristine
land, brimming with wildlife, has been home.

We are conservationists, having protected over 170 acres 
of this spectacular habitat. Our dream is to develop a small 
Eco Retreat Center for others to experience God’s beauty,
refreshment, solitude, and inspiration.

We join 7,000+ families, filing M#37, who have dreams for

their land. We have invested our lives and thousands of dollars,
expecting fair treatment, jumping every “hoop”. Now, M#49
threatens to sweep it all away. Below are 3 reasons why we
believe you should consider voting No.

1) In 1973, the State of Oregon made a promise to its citizens:

When property rights are taken away, those experiencing loss
will be fairly compensated. This never happened, until M#37.
Now, M#49 further dishonors and buries those promises. When
our Government does not honor its’ word with any one group,
we are all threatened.

2) M#49 supporters throw around the number of acres for

proposed development, trying to create shock value. The truth
is that Government owns and controls over one-half of all
Oregon land. The truth is that the 7,000+ claims represent less
than 1.25% of Oregon’s land. Not mentioning this is like selling
a car at so much a month, with no mention of the number of
months or total price. Private landowners have a conscience:
we care about a healthy, balanced, beautiful Oregon 
environment, without heaping more M#49 government 
restrictions.

3) We all need good development: Homes, food production,
sanitation, medical/dental, clean water, etc. In our free society,
there are always a few folks with low morals: people in 
development being no different. We all take off our shoes at 
the airport because of the few: we don’t close the airports.
M#49 is a destroyer of integrity, incentive, and fairness. 
Thank you for caring!

(This information furnished by Jesse and Elaine Pattison.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

The Holtan Family Asks You to 
Vote “NO” on Ballot Measure 49

My name is Eric Holtan. Our family farm is located in rural
Yamhill County. Our farm has been in the Holtan family for
three generations.
In 2003, my father became very sick, and my mother needed
help taking care of my father and the family farm. My wife and 
I wanted to move to the farm to help my mother and father, 
but land use laws would not allow it.
My father passed away just after the November 2004 elections,
that’s when Oregonians changed the law to make is possible for
families like mine to move back to the family farm. Measure 37
made it possible for us to build a home on the farm, and be
there for my mother.
Measure 49 will change all of that, by making radical changes 
to the law. Measure 49 would make it nearly impossible for
young families like mine to ever be able to move back to the
family farm because of Measure 49’s hidden costs:

- Measure 49 allows government to charge families any

amount just to build one home.

- Second, Measure 49 allows anyone in the entire state of

Oregon to file a lawsuit to stop family farms from passing
on to future generations, forcing young families like mine
to bear the cost of expensive attorneys, just because they
want to preserve their family’s farm!

- Finally, Measure 49’s filing requirements are so 

burdensome that the cost of complying with Measure 49
would make it impossible for young families living on the
family farm.

Measure 49 is a bad idea, and will change the law so 
dramatically that young families will never be able to move 
out to the family farm.
Please join my family in voting NO on Measure 49

(This information furnished by Eric Holtan.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

As a former Mayor and land use hearings officer I understand
the frustration many citizens have with overbearing land use
regulations and the Department of Land Conservation and
Development.
I did not vote for Measure 37 but represent some Measure 37
claimants. In doing so, I have been appalled at how poorly 
citizens have been treated by the State (DLCD). I believe DLCD
has deliberately violated the law and put elderly ordinary 
citizens, in a position where they have to sue the State in court
for relief. Last May, DLCD, in collusion with a small number of
legislators, concocted Measure 49 behind closed doors. They
are now asking the voters to pass a measure that is flawed and
will not work.
Measure 49 designates as high value farmland most properties
in Central Oregon even though there are no water rights on 
the land or soils to support agricultural activity. Sagebrush and
juniper as high value farmland? Nonsense!
Measure 49 penalizes innocent citizens who, in reliance on
Measure 37 waivers, spent their hard earned resources to file
land use applications. Measure 49 does not grandfather those
persons in as has been done in the past. Instead, your fellow 
citizens will lose not only their rights but also their hard earned
savings.
There is a better approach. The State can reform our land use
system by allowing a certain level of rural development on
lands that do not have high value for agricultural or forest uses
or are in sensitive environmental areas. The State has rejected
innovative measures and believes that the overbearing 
regulations that were the cause of Measure 7 and Measure 37
must stand. Do not be deceived. If Measure 49 passes, there
will be no incentive for the State to initiate reform. Vote No on
Measure 49 and force the State to initiate meaningful reform in
our land use system.
Ed Fitch, Attorney at Law, Redmond

(This information furnished by Edward Fitch, Attorney at Law.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
55 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Opposition

The Jackson County Farm Bureau Asks Oregonians to

Please Vote NO on Measure 49

Please Do Not Hurt Oregon Agriculture!

Ballot Measure 49 is a radical departure from the current law in
Oregon. Under current law, farm families can easily hand down
the family farm through the generations.
But Measure 49 changes all of that. If Measure 49 passes, the
ability of farms to stay in the family will be put in jeopardy. 
And all of Oregon agriculture will be seriously hurt.
Under Ballot Measure 49, if a farmer wants to pass his farm
down to his children or grandchildren, anyone in the state of
Oregon can sue the farmer to stop him! That means a farmer in
Jackson County can be sued by someone all the way up in
Portland, just because the farmer wants to build a home for his
daughter or son on the family farm!
Farming is hard, honorable work. Do Oregonians really want to
repay farmers with the threat of years of endless lawsuits?
When will the attack on rural Oregon ever stop?
Oregon’s land use system is seriously broken. Measure 49 only
makes things worse for those of us who make our living off of
the land.
Many in Oregon’s farming industry tried to tell the Legislature
that Measure 49 would seriously hurt farming and farm families
in Oregon, but the Legislature wouldn’t allow ANY public 
comment on Measure 49 during the committee process.
Don’t fall for the trickery behind Measure 49. If you take the 
time to read all 21 pages of the Measure, you will find out
Measure 49 isn’t all that it is cracked up to be.
Please join President Ron Bjork and the Jackson County
Farm Bureau and vote NO on Measure 49!

(This information furnished by Ron Bjork, Jackson County Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 49 MAKES PARENTS AND 

GRANDPARENTS CHOOSE

Vote NO on Measure 49

As parents and grandparents, we are asking that you vote NO
on Measure 49.
We are the proud parents of five children, and grandparents of
five grandchildren. We have owned our property in Clackamas
County since 1960. Recently we received permission under the
current law to allow us to divide up our property so that we
could give each child and grandchild a piece of our property to
call their own.
More importantly, the current law allows us to keep our 
property in the family.
Measure 49 will not allow us to pass our property on to our 
children and grandchildren. Measure 49 is a drastic departure
from current law. Under Measure 49, we may only be able to
divide our property into two parcels – in addition to the parcel
our home currently sits upon.
Measure 49 is so poorly written, no one can say with any 
certainty that Measure 49 would help us at all.

That means that we are going to have choose which of our 
children and grandchildren will get one of the two parcels that
Measure 49 might allow.
We have already invested our life’s savings into our property.
Measure 49 will force us to re-file with the government, with no
promise that we will get any relief whatsoever. Measure 49
allows the government to regulate virtually all the value of your
property without providing any compensation. The only thing
we are guaranteed is that under Measure 49, we stand to lose
everything we have invested.
Measure 49 is a very bad idea. Measure 49 will force families
like ours to make choices that the current law does not. There is
no reason why the current law should be changed so radically
and in such a way that penalizes families like yours and ours.
Please join us in voting NO on Measure 49.
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Curry
Estacada

(This information furnished by Gerald Curry and Roberta Curry.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Dear Oregonians:
Many constituents claim Legislator’s don’t think of the long
term consequences of votes in the House of Representatives.
Now it is your turn.
Think before voting. Measure 49 repeals the intent of Measure 7
struck down by an activist Supreme Court thwarting the will of
the people. Measure 37’s implementation was partially blocked
by the Attorney General’s February 24, 2005 legal opinion
thwarting the will of the people. Our Democrat Governor talks
about flawed language in his letter to your home but helped
block fixes in the Legislature.
Think before voting. The ballot title, measure text, and explana-
tion statement are not neutral or bipartisan in any manner as
normally required by the law. The Democrat controlled House
inserted this Measure into the Voters’ Pamphlet based on a
party line vote. Every House Republican opposed stacking the
deck against the public. The Democrat controlled Joint
Committee on Land Use Fairness amended what you read 
without a public hearing, with only three hours public notice,
and on a pure Democratic party line vote. Check the public
record at www.leg.state.or.us.
Think before voting. Rhetoric reigns. Chicken little claims the
sky is falling as irreplaceable agriculture and forest lands 
are decimated. Fact or fiction? The public record shows the 
forest industry opposed the House bill creating this Measure.
Farm organizations are on the public record as opposing the
same. Federal records show Oregon farmers were subsidized
$74 million dollars in 2006. Farmers were paid not to plant
crops on Oregon lands. State records show 500,000 acres in
conservation reserves. Another 2.1 million acres sit fallow
according to official State documents. 
Think before voting. Do you own your home? Do you really
own your land? Should citizens have property rights? Can a
father allow his son to build a home for his children on the 
family farm? The governing elite and bureaucracy have said no.
You should say No to Measure 49.
Respectfully,
Brian J. Boquist
State Representative 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
56 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

(This information furnished by Brian J. Boquist, State Representative.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Americans for Prosperity – Oregon Urges a

“No” Vote on Measure 49

Measure 49 would allow the government to take your property

without paying you for it.

The U.S. and Oregon Constitutions guarantee that you will

be compensated if government takes your property. 

For almost 40 years, Oregon’s land use system has refused to

recognize this simple Constitutional guarantee.

Under current law, if government takes an action that reduces

your property value, they have to pay you. 

Measure 49 would undercut our own Constitution.
Measure 49 would allow government to take your 

property for the benefit of private companies – 

including out-of-state companies.

Please join us in voting “No” on Measure 49

Americans for Prosperity – Oregon
www.americansforprosperity.org

Oregon_AFP@yahoo.com

(This information furnished by Jeff Kropf and Matt Evans, Americans for
Prosperity - Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Laws that affect important public issues, like Measure 49,

deserve the full protection of the legislative process. The 
people of Oregon may disagree as to whether Measure 49 is
good or bad public policy, but public testimony before the
Legislature assures the integrity of the process. In refusing to
allow a single substantive public hearing on Measure 49, the
Legislature violated a fundamental principle: the people’s 
business requires the input of the people.

Equally disturbing is the Legislature’s actions to prevent 
judicial review of the Measure 49 ballot title. The people of
Oregon may contest a ballot title if, in a citizen’s judgment, the
title is unfair (ORS 250.085). For Measure 49, the Legislature
used a separate bill (HB 2640) to FORBID a challenge to the 
ballot title. Specifically, the Legislature stripped the Oregon
Supreme Court of the power to review. This intentionally
negates the people’s ability to contest a ballot title that, by any
objective measure, does not fairly describe Measure 49.

All Oregonians should be concerned about the “jurisdiction

stripping” provisions attached to Measure 49. It is 
fundamentally bad policy for the Legislature to strip away 
Court jurisdiction over a specific matter and prohibit Court
review of a ballot title. It takes little imagination to see how 
the Legislature’s abuse of “jurisdiction stripping” provisions
can lead to fundamental breaches in the rights we all enjoy 
as Oregonians.

Measure 49 has pros and cons depending on one’s 

perspective. However, the Legislature’s refusal to allow a 
discussion of the pros and cons and its prohibition of Court
review for the ballot title is not consistent with what we must
demand of our elected officials. The people’s business is too
important to be held captive to partisan politics in Salem. 

Vote NO on Measure 49 and send the Legislature a message
that the integrity of the legislative process and judicial review
must always be preserved for the people.

(This information furnished by Paul Hribernick.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

OREGON ORCHARDISTS ASK YOU TO 

VOTE NO ON MEASURE 49

We raise a diverse range of crops including pears, apples, and
hazelnuts. 
Although we don’t raise the same types of crops, we do have
one thing in common: We all oppose Measure 49.
When you commit to planting an orchard, you commit to years
of expenses before you get a crop. Like timber, our type of 
farming is a long-term investment. We consider all the risks
when we make those investments in the future. 
Measure 49 would grant the government the power to take the
value and use of private property without compensation. 
That risk would jeopardize future investment by family
orchardists. We already make long term investments facing the
uncertainty of global competition, changes in climate, and
uncertain government labor policies. If government can take
our property without compensation, the risk becomes too
much.
Who would make long-term plans if you will lose your 
investment with the stroke of a bureaucrat’s pen?
That’s why we urge a No Vote on Measure 49!
What About Subdivisions and Farmland?
It is laughable that those supporting Measure 49 are talking
about farmland and subdivisions. 
These are the same people and special interest groups that
have supported the state land use regulatory system, a system
which has forced large scale development onto the prime 
farmland around Portland, Salem, Eugene, and Medford for
over 30 years. 
Measure 49 will force large scale developments onto prime
farmland near cities and lock away unproductive areas, all at
the expense of the property owner, Oregon agriculture, and
those of you sitting in traffic. 
Measure 49 undermines Oregon agriculture. Please Vote
No on Measure 49.
Debra Laraway, apple grower, Hood River County
Phil Downing, hazelnut grower, Washington County
Frances Y. Benton, pear grower, Hood River County

(This information furnished by Debra Laraway, Laraway & Sons Inc.; 
Phil Downing, Downing Nut Farm; Frances Y. Benton, Benton Orchards.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
57 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Opposition

THE ALBANY DEMOCRAT-HERALDCALLS THE YES ON

MEASURE 49 CAMPAIGN “A PILE OF BALONEY”
The Albany Democrat-Heraldsaid this about supporters of
Measure 49: “The campaign for Measure 49 has begun, and if
the start is any indication, you are in for a pile of baloney.”
Albany Democrat-Herald,August 10th, 2007.
Supporters of Measure 49 will say just about anything to scare
you about Measure 37. Here are the facts about Measure 37:

1. There have been approximately 7,562 claims filed 

under Measure 37. (Source: Portland State University
Measure 37 Database Website,
http://www.pdx.edu/ims/m37database.html, last visited
August 30th, 2007).

2. The amount of land that is subject to Measure 37 claims is
approximately 1% of the land in Oregon. (Source: Portland
State University Measure 37 Database Website,
http://www.pdx.edu/ims/m37database.html, last visited
August 30th, 2007). That means 99% of Oregon is
unchanged by Measure 37.

3. The average home site created by Measure 37 is 13 acres.

Source: Portland State University website,
http://www.pdx.edu/ims/m37.html, last visited 
August 30th, 2007). 13 acres is roughly the size of 13 city
blocks. These are the “massive subdivisions” that 
opponents keep talking about. Look around, have you
seen these massive subdivisions?

4. Measure 37 doesn’t allow any use that will endanger the

public’s health or safety. See ORS 197.352(3)(B). In order to
make a Measure 37 claim, you must prove there is 
adequate water (you can’t dry up your neighbor’s wells),
adequate sewer disposal (you can’t pollute), adequate
roads, adequate fire/police protection etc. All health and
safety regulations must be complied with.

As the Democrat-Heraldnotes, “The idea now is to scare 
us about Measure 37’s effects.” Albany Democrat-Herald,
August 10th, 2007. These are the tactics of Measure 49 
supporters. Now that you know the facts, you shouldn’t be
scared.

(This information furnished by Ross Day, Director of Legal Affairs,
Oregonians In Action.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 49 SIMPLY DOES NOT WORK!

Don’t vote to penalize Oregonians who followed the law!

Thousands of your fellow Oregonians have spent a lot of
money – some people have invested their entire life savings –
following the current law, trying to get their property rights
back.
These Oregonians have followed the rules, jumped through 
all the hoops the government put in their way, all just to get
their rights back. Measure 49 threatens everything your fellow
Oregonians have worked so hard for.
Under Measure 49, property owners who have received
waivers to use their property under current law will have to 
re-file their applications, satisfy a whole new set of criteria, and
run the risk of the government denying any relief whatsoever.
It’s the language of the Measure that counts:

Supporters of Measure 49 claim that Measure 49 does not
require any property owners to re-file anything. But a quick
read of Measure 49 shows that Measure 49’s supporters simply
are wrong:

- Section 6(6)(d) requires claimants to re-file their claims

using tougher new standards that weren’t required under
Measure 37

- Section 8(2)(b) requires the Department of Land

Conservation and Development to identify the information
that a property owner has to file under Measure 49

- Section 8(3) explains that a property owner must file the

form requirement by the Department of Land
Conservation and Development, along with any 
information required by the form.

By requiring new information, and new filings, Measure 49 puts
at risk the investments of thousands of Oregonians who have
done nothing more than follow the law and played by the rules.
Despite what supporters of Measure 49 are claiming,
the fact is that Oregonians are going to have to go
through the application process yet again if Measure 49
passes. This is simply not fair.
When you read Measure 49, it is easy to see that Measure 49
simply will not work.
Please vote NO on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Frank L. Nims, President, Oregonians In
Action.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Don’t Let Out-Of-State Corporations 

Take Your Property!

Stop the Measure 49 Trojan horse!

Measure 49 will allow government to take your private 
property, without compensation, to benefit a single 
corporation.
They didn’t tell you that in the misleading ballot title did they?
Here’s what happens if Measure 49 passes:
Let’s say that some local politicians want to help a big 
corporation. The big corporation says that it wants your 
property as a “buffer,” the local politicians can pass a law or
regulations that prohibits you from using your property – 
without one dime of compensation. You paid for the land with
years of hard work, and the corporation gets all the benefits.
The politicians pay you nothing for the use of your land…
and you lose your life’s savings.
That is why Measure 49 is so unfair.
That is why so much money is pouring in from corporations
and their front groups to pass an Oregon ballot measure, its
why Measure 49 was so controversial that it only passed the
Legislature by a single vote, that is why the Legislature refused
to hold even one public hearing to expose the real intent.
Measure 49 is a Trojan horse – it is what is hidden inside
the measure that will steal the property and life work of
thousands of real Oregonians.
Don’t let them fool you with talk of farmland and groundwater –
this Measure is about one thing, letting government take your
property without compensation. The farmland talk is the
“Trojan Horse” to get you to grant them the power to take your
property!

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
58 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Please Read Measure 49 carefully, and we are positive that you
will join us in voting No on Measure 49.

(This information furnished by Ashley Overman.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

PLANNING OFFICIALS ASK YOU TO VOTE NO ON 49

As planning commissioners/community planning organization
presidents, we have a unique understanding of how zoning 
and planning works in our areas, and of Oregon’s unique and
controversial land use laws.
We have each examined Measure 49 in detail, and urge
you to vote NO on this badly flawed measure.
Measure 49 erases what little control Oregon property 
owners maintain in their property. It allows state and local 
governments to take your property without just compensation.
We have seen countless examples in our duties as planning
commissioners of property owners making perfectly 
reasonable requests to use their property which were not
allowed by our current land use system.
It is very frustrating to have to tell a property owner that they
can’t do something that makes perfect sense.
If Measure 49 passes, we’ll be doing that a lot.
Matt Green-Hite, Gladstone Planning Commissioner
David Jaques, Douglas County Planning Commmissioner
Don Moore, Josephine County Planning Commissioner
Jerry Olsen, Estacada, Community Planning Organization

President 

Rich Raynor, Douglas County Planning Commissioner

(This information furnished by Matthew Green-Hite, CPA, Gladstone
Planning Commission Chair; David Jaques, Planning Commission
Chairman 12 years, Douglas County Planning Commission; Don Moore,
Josephine County Planning Commission; Jerry Olsen, CPA; 
Rich Raynor.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Please vote No on Measure 49.

Big Money Special Interests, Backed by Out-of-State
Corporations are Supporting Measure 49…

….here are a few reasons we recommend a No vote on
Measure 49:

#1 They Have Tried To Fool You:

The Oregon Legislature narrowly passed Measure 49 by

one vote, but refused to allow even 1 public hearing on this very
controversial bill. They also drafted a title for the ballot that was
completely misleading, and then added a provision stripping
Oregonians the fundamental right to appeal for a fair and 
unbiased ballot title.
#2 They Have Tried Mislead You:

The ballot title states that Measure 49 will protect farm-

land, forestland, and ground water. This is untrue. Look around,
over the past 30 years Oregon’s state land use laws has directed
the building of subdivisions around Portland, Hillsboro, Salem,
Albany, Eugene, and Medford on “prime farmland.” That 
continues whether Measure 49 passes or not. Why would the
Legislature need our statewide vote to protect groundwater? 

It is condescending that they think they can mislead Oregon
votes with a ballot title would insult us with this ballot title.
#3 What Do They Have To Hide??

Measure 49 makes a dramatic change to property law 

in Oregon. It would allow state and local governments to
take your property without compensation. If you vote for
Measure 49 you are surrendering the protections in current 
law for the property you own, or every property you or your
children hope to own in the future.
Measure 49 is a radical change to state law that allows 
government to literally steal private property. We cannot give
up such precious protections.
Please Vote No On Measure 49

(This information furnished by Frank Mills.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Before voting on Measure 49, ask yourself these 
questions:

1. Why did the legislature refuse to hold even one public

hearing on Measure 49 before they sent it to voters?

2. Why did the legislature reject the Oregon Attorney

General’s neutral and unbiased ballot title for Measure 49?

3. Why did the legislature refuse to allow the public to 

comment on the ballot title they prepared for Measure 49?

4. Why did the legislature refuse to allow the Oregon

Supreme Court to make sure the ballot title for Measure 49
was not biased misleading or inaccurate? Every other 
ballot title can be reviewed by the Supreme Court, why not
Measure 49’s ballot title?

5. How is Measure 49 a “compromise” when the Measure
was approved by the legislature along party lines? Why
didn’t the legislature pass a proposal that had broad,
bipartisan support?

6. Why won’t Measure 49 supporters tell you that any 

property owner in Oregon can be sued by anyone for
wanting to put just one home on their property?

7. Why won’t Measure 49 supporters tell you that under

Measure 49, your home and property can be taken by the
government without compensation, and if you try and 
get your property back, you will have to pay your attorney,
your appraiser, the government’s attorney, and the 
government’s appraiser, even if you win your case?

Unfortunately, there are no good answers to these questions.
Which is part of the reason why we urge a NO vote on
Measure 49.
Measure 49 is no “compromise.” It doesn’t fix anything. It
makes sweeping changes to Oregon law. Please reject 
Measure 49.

(This information furnished by David J. Hunnicutt, Stop Taking Our
Property PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
59 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Argument in Opposition

As a former Mayor and land use hearings officer I understand
the frustration many citizens have with overbearing land use
regulations and the Department of Land Conservation and
Development.
I did not vote for Measure 37 but represent some Measure 37
claimants. In doing so, I have been appalled at how poorly 
citizens have been treated by the State (DLCD). I believe DLCD
has deliberately violated the law and put elderly ordinary 
citizens, in a position where they have to sue the State in court
for relief. Last May, DLCD, in collusion with a small number of
legislators, concocted Measure 49 behind closed doors. They
are now asking the voters to pass a measure that is flawed and
will not work.
Measure 49 designates as high value farmland most properties
in Central Oregon even though there are no water rights on 
the land or soils to support agricultural activity. Sagebrush and
juniper as high value farmland? Nonsense!
Measure 49 penalizes innocent citizens who, in reliance on
Measure 37 waivers, spent their hard earned resources to file
land use applications. Measure 49 does not grandfather those
persons in as has been done in the past. Instead, your fellow 
citizens will lose not only their rights but also their hard earned
savings.
There is a better approach. The State can reform our land use
system by allowing a certain level of rural development on
lands that do not have high value for agricultural or forest uses
or are in sensitive environmental areas. The State has rejected
innovative measures and believes that the overbearing 
regulations that were the cause of Measure 7 and Measure 37
must stand. Do not be deceived. If Measure 49 passes, there
will be no incentive for the State to initiate reform. Vote No on
Measure 49 and force the State to initiate meaningful reform in
our land use system.
Edward Fitch, Attorney at Law, Redmond

(This information furnished by Edward Fitch, Attorney at Law.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

ISSUE: COMPENSATION

If Measure 49 passes, government can take your home
and property without compensation.
Why? Because if Government takes your property, and you ask
for it back, Measure 49 requires you to pay for two appraisals 
of the property. Section 12(2). Your appraiser is required to
determine the fair market value that’s been taken from you
using an interest rate for a one-year Treasury Bill. Section 12(2).
Unfortunately, one-year Treasury Bills haven’t been sold since
2001!
That means your appraiser can’t calculate the value of your
property that has been taken. Measure 49 makes it impossible
to prove your case!
That’s just the beginning. Measure 49 allows the government
to charge you a “fee” to “review your claim.” Section 13(3).
That “fee” will include charges for the government’s appraisers
to review your claim, the government’s lawyers to review your
claim, the government’s planners to process your claim, and
the government’s hearings officer to conduct a public hearing
on your claim.
And all this because you dared to ask for your property back!

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
60 | State Measures

But that’s not all. If government takes your property, and you
file a claim to get it back, you will have to endure at least one
government hearing on your claim, where anyone can show up
and oppose you. Section 14(1). If the government decides to
give you your property back, anyone who appeared at the 
public hearing (even if they just sent an e-mail) can sue you in
the local court! Section 16(1).
It gets even worse. Even if you win, and the government
gives you your property back, you will still have to pay your
attorneys and appraisers and the government’s attorneys and
appraisers. Why? Because Measure 49 changes Oregon law to
eliminate your right to recover your costs to get your property
back! Section 4.
The point is simple. Nobody will have any protection for their
home and property if Measure 49 passes.
Dale Riddle, Attorney at Law, Eugene

(This information furnished by Dale Riddle, Attorney at Law.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

ISSUE: WHY WAIVERS AREN’T TRANSFERABLE

UNDER MEASURE 49

Supporters of Measure 49 are making claims about Measure 49
that are simply false.
Supporters of Measure 49 claim that Measure 49 makes
“waivers” transferable
Read the text of Measure 49 and decide for yourself:
For Measure 49 claims made before June 28th, 2007, 
Section 11.(6) says:

(6) An authorization to partition or subdivide the property, 
or to establish dwellings on the property, granted under 
section 6, 7 or 9 of the 2007 Act runs with the property and
may be either transferred with the property or encumbered
by another person without affecting the authorization.

Nowhere in this section does it say “Waivers are transferable”.
The term “waiver” is specially defined in Measure 49 in 
Section 2.(21). If the Legislature meant for “waivers” to be
transferable, the Legislature would have said so. Instead, this
section says that “authorizations” (i.e. permits) are 
transferable.
Permits are transferable under current law. Measure 49 does
not change the current law to allow for “transferability of
waivers”.
For Measure 49 claims made after June 28th, 2007, 
Section 12.(6) of Measure 49 says

(6) A use authorized by this section has the legal status of a
lawful nonconforming use in the same manner as provided
by ORS 215.130…..When a use authorized by this section is
lawfully established, the use may be continued lawfully in
the same manner as provided by ORS 215.130.

What this means is that property owners who file a
Measure 49 claim after June 28, 2007, must establish
the use of the property (i.e. build the house) before the
property can be sold. This is exactly what supporters of
Measure 49 say is the status of the current law.
Measure 49 does not change the current law, which means
Measure 49 does nothing to change transferability.
When you take the time to read Measure 49, you realize that
Measure 49 simply doesn’t work.

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

Ross Day, Attorney at Law, Tigard

(This information furnished by Ross A. Day, Attorney at Law.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

ISSUE: WHY MEASURE 49 WILL MAKE YOU PAY THE

GOVERNMENT TO GET YOUR RIGHTS BACK

Supporters of Measure 49 are making claims about Measure 49
that are simply false.
But here is something the Supporters of Measure 49 are not
telling you.
Under Measure 49, you are no longer able to recover your 
attorney fees. What is worse, under Measure 49, you may have
to pay for the government’s attorney fees and appraisals.
Read the text of Measure 49 and decide for yourself:
Section 4 of Measure 49 repeals your right to recover your
attorney fees.
Section 8.(5) of Measure 49 allows the government to collect
the “actual and reasonable cost of the review [of your claim]”.
Section 13.(3) of Measure allows the government to “impose a
fee for review of a claim filed under [Measure 49] in an amount
not to exceed the actual and reasonable cost of reviewing the
claim.”
Under Measure 49, not only do you lose your right to recover
attorney fees, but the government can actually charge you
for the cost of reviewing your claim – which will include,
undoubtedly, the cost of having the government’s lawyers
review your claim.
Also, under Measure 49, the government will be able to charge
you for other costs like land use planners and the government’s
own appraisal. The government’s appraisals alone will cost
thousands of dollars that the government can make you pay for
under Measure 49 before you can get your right to do anything
on your property.
When you take the time to read Measure 49, you realize that
Measure 49 simply doesn’t work.
Please vote NO on Measure 49
Eric Winters, Attorney at Law, Wilsonville

(This information furnished by Eric C. Winters, Attorney at Law.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

ISSUE: WHY THE GOVERNMENT WILL NEVER PAY YOU

COMPENSATION FOR TAKING YOUR PROPERTY

Supporters of Measure 49 are making claims about Measure 49
that are simply false.
Supporters of Measure 49 claim that it entitles you to 
compensation when government takes your property, if you
can prove the value of what they’ve taken.
The problem is that Measure 49 creates a formula that makes
it impossible to prove how much the government has taken
from you.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
61 | State Measures

Read the text of Measure 49 and decide for yourself:
Section 7.(6) says:

“The reduction in the fair market value of the property
caused by the enactment of one or more land use regulations
that were the basis for the claim is equal to the decrease,
if any, in the fair market value of the property from
the date that is one year before the enactment of the
land use regulation to the date that is one year after
enactment, plus interest;” and,
“Interest shall be computed under this subsection using the
average interest rate for a one-year United States
Government Treasury Bill on December 31 of each
year of the period between the date the land use regulation
was enacted and the date the claim was filed, compounded
annually on January 1 of each year of the period.”

This formula won’t work because one-year Treasury Bills
haven’t been sold since 2001. Second, by limiting the amount of
decrease to a single year after its adoption the market won’t
have adjusted to reflect the regulation’s long term impact.
Under Measure 49 your loss is limited to one year’s decrease in
value, even if you have owned the property for 30 years. But
even that won’t work because you can’t calculate your loss.
In plain English, you get nothing.
When you take the time to read Measure 49, you realize that
Measure 49 simply is not as advertised.
Vote NO on 49
Sean Smith, Attorney at Law, Cottage Grove

(This information furnished by Sean Smith, Attorney at Law.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

ISSUE: MAKING PROPERTY OWNERS

RE-FILE THEIR MEASURE 37 APPLICATIONS

Supporters of Measure 49 are making claims about Measure 49
that are simply false.
Supporters of Measure 49 claim that current Measure 37
claimants will not have to re-file applications under 
Measure 49.
Read the text of Measure 49 and decide for yourself:
Section 8.(2)(b) of Measure 49 requires the Department of Land
Conservation and Development to identify the information that
a property owner has to file under Measure 49.
Section 8.(3) of Measure 49 explains that a property owner
must file the form requirement by the Department of Land
Conservation and Development, along with any information
required by the form.
But the worst part is this. Not only do you have to re-file
your claim, but Measure 49 significantly changes the
rules that you must meet, meaning many Measure 37
claimants will lose their claim.
By requiring new information, and new filings, Measure 49 puts
at risk the investments of thousands of Oregonians who have
done nothing more than follow the law and played by the rules.
Despite what supporters of Measure 49 are claiming, the fact is
that Oregonians are going to have to go through an application
process yet again if Measure 49 passes.
When you take the time to read Measure 49, you realize that
Measure 49 simply doesn’t work.

continued  

Measure 49 Arguments

The exact language of Measure 49 is important, because it’s the
language of Measure 49 that judges and lawyers are required to
follow if they are asked to sort out the mess that Measure 49
would create. 
www.stop49.com
MEASURE 49 – A WOLF IN SHEEP’S CLOTHING

(This information furnished by David J. Hunnicutt, Director, Stop Taking
Our Property PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

PLEASE VOTE NO ON MEASURE 49
“IF WE CAN STACK PEOPLE UP IN TOWN AND PUT THEM 
IN A FOOD LINE WE WILL HAVE COMPLETE CONTROL,.” 
These were the words of a head land use planner in Polk County 
about 30 years ago. I have seen nothing contrary to that 
statement in 30 years. The agenda is to limit housing growth to
the designated urban areas, and restrict rural housing to a 
minimum.
In 1973, passage of Senate Bill 100 initiated that process for
Oregon. To preserve beautiful Oregon, “PLANNING” (land 
control) was initiated. Property rights were sacrificed without
compensation to the landowner for loss of use or value.
Enron people have gone to jail for manipulating values of 
people’s investments in stocks. “PLANNING” has caused a
manipulated loss of value for owners of rural land in this State
since 1973 without compensation to the owner.
M-49
1. Land applications will be made to the State, rather than to 
the counties in which the land and usually the owner exists
(state control rather than local control.)
2. One to three parcels will be hard to get and the State will 
designate where the parcels will be. They will contain a 
maximum of two acres, clustered together to make a 
mini-town, at a State designated spot on the property.
3. There is no time limit as to when the parcels will be approved
by the State.
4. If there is an appeal, which can be brought by anyone, the
applicant will be required to pay the government appraiser and
attorney plus his own representation with no allowance for 
collection of those funds, even if the applicant prevails.
5. Vested use is mentioned several times but never defined, 
nor has it been for 30 years.
6. The legislature has completely disregarded the voice of the
people in the Oregon Supreme Court upheld law of M-37 and
the initiative process enacted by her citizen’s.
VOTE NO ON M-49.

(This information furnished by Vern Ratzlaff.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Please vote NO on Measure 49
Cameron Krauss, Attorney at Law, Glendale

(This information furnished by Cameron Krauss, Attorney at Law.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

ISSUE: WHY THE “1 TO 3 HOME EXPRESS LANE” 

DOESN’T WORK

Supporters of Measure 49 are making claims about Measure 49
that are simply false. 
Supporters of Measure 49 who drafted the Explanatory
Statement for Measure 49 say “Claimants may build up to three
homes if allowed when they acquired their properties.”  
Read the text of Measure 49 and decide for yourself:
Under Measure 49, there are different requirements for the 
“1 to 3 home option” depending on where you live.
If you live outside a UGB, Section 6(6) of Measure 49 says that
in order to get 1 to 3 homes you must prove 6 things, including:

(d) One or more land use regulations prohibit establishing
the lot, parcel or dwelling;

Under Measure 49, in order to get 1 to 3 homes, you must have
1) already filed a Measure 37 claim, and 2) prove there is one 
or more land use regulations that prohibit establishing the lot,
parcel or dwelling. 
That is a much tougher standard than current law, which
requires you to show that a land use regulation “restricts”
the use of you property.
The distinction is critical because most rural families are 
prevented from building one home on their property by a
restriction, like LCDC’s $80,000 rule or a wildlife habitat 
overlay.
These are examples of restrictions – they don’t stop you from
building, they tell you under what conditions you can build.
These restrictions have led to most Measure 37 claims.
There are many other laws out there that are restrictions, not
prohibitions, on your ability to use your land. Those laws are
NOT subject to Measure 49.
Which means that if at the time you bought your 
property you could have built three homes, but you
can’t build three homes now because of a land use
restriction, Measure 49 wipes out your claim.
Take the time to read Measure 49. It simply doesn’t work.
Dave Hunnicutt, Attorney at Law, Tigard

(This information furnished by David J. Hunnicutt, Attorney at Law.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Do you need more information about Measure 49? 
Go to www.stoptakingourproperty.com and you can find
out what Measure 49’s supporters aren’t telling you. 
You can also read the text of Measure 49 for yourself, and hear
what experts say about Measure 49 and what changes it makes
to Oregon law using the exact language of the measure. 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
62 | State Measures

(2) For purposes of subsection (1) of this section, 

consumption occurs when a person in this state 
purchases or uses cigarettes, cigars or other tobacco
products, other than purchases made for the purpose of
reselling the cigarettes, cigars or other tobacco 
products to another person.

(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section:
(a) The Legislative Assembly may exempt from the

taxes imposed under subsection (1) of this section 
cigarettes, cigars and tobacco products that are exempt
from taxation under Oregon law on the effective date 
of this section; and

(b) The Legislative Assembly may provide that the tax

imposed under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this
section, when combined with existing taxes on cigars,
may not exceed 50 cents per cigar.

(4) The Legislative Assembly may enact laws to 

facilitate administration of the taxes imposed under
subsection (1) of this section, including but not limited
to laws:

(a) Defining terms used in this section.
(b) Prescribing how the taxes imposed under 

subsection (1) of this section will be administered and
enforced.

(c) Requiring that the taxes imposed under 

subsection (1) of this section be prepaid by a distributor
upon distribution of the cigarettes, cigars or other
tobacco products for consumption and be subsequently 
collected from the consumer.

(5) Revenues from the taxes imposed under 

subsection (1) of this section are dedicated to providing
health care to children, low-income adults and other
medically underserved Oregonians and to tobacco use
prevention and education.

(6) The taxes imposed under subsection (1) of this 

section apply to:

(a) Distributions of cigarettes, cigars and other

tobacco products for consumption on or after 
January 1, 2008; and

(b) Cigarettes that are in this state for the purpose of

sale to another person as of January 1, 2008.

PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this 
resolution shall be submitted to the people for their
approval or rejection at a special election held 
throughout this state as provided in chapter ______,
Oregon Laws 2007 (Enrolled House Bill 2640).
NOTE: Boldfaced type indicates new language; [brackets and
italic] type indicates deletions or comments.

Measure 50

Senate Joint Resolution 4—Referred to the Electorate of
Oregon by the 2007 Legislative Assembly to be voted on at the
Special Election, November 6, 2007.

Ballot Title

50

AMENDS CONSTITUTION: DEDICATES FUNDS TO 
PROVIDE HEALTH CARE FOR CHILDREN, FUND
TOBACCO PREVENTION, THROUGH INCREASED
TOBACCO TAX.
RESULT OF “YES” VOTE: “Yes” vote dedicates funds to 
provide health care for children, low-income adults and 
medically underserved Oregonians, and fund tobacco 
prevention programs, through increased tobacco tax.
RESULT OF “NO” VOTE: “No” vote rejects proposal to 
dedicate funding for children’s health care, other health care
programs, and tobacco prevention programs; maintains
tobacco tax at current level.
SUMMARY: This measure increases the tobacco tax and 
dedicates the new revenue to providing health care for 
children, low-income adults and other medically underserved
Oregonians, and to funding tobacco prevention and education
programs. The measure increases the tax on cigarettes by 
84.5 cents per pack, and increases the tax on other tobacco
products. The measure will fund the Healthy Kids Program 
created by the 2007 legislature to provide affordable health care
for uninsured children. The measure will fund tobacco 
prevention programs, safety net clinics, rural health care and
health care for Oregon’s lowest income families and individuals
through the Oregon Health Plan. If the measure does not pass,
these health care programs will not be expanded, and the
Healthy Kids Program will not become law.
ESTIMATE OF FINANCIAL IMPACT: This measure increases
state revenue by an estimated $152.7 million for the 2007-2009
budget period. Revenue is estimated to increase $233.2 million
in the following two-year period. These estimates account for 
a projected decline in the sale of tobacco products because 
of higher prices. These estimates would be reduced if further
restrictions on smoking become law. The additional state 
revenue generated by this measure would be available to 
allocate to programs that provide health care for children, 
low-income adults and other medically vulnerable Oregonians,
and to tobacco prevention programs.

Text of Measure
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State
of Oregon:

PARAGRAPH 1. The Constitution of the State of Oregon is

amended by creating a new section 15 to be added to and made
a part of Article IX, such section to read:

SECTION 15. (1) In addition to and not in lieu of any

other tax:

(a) A tax equal to 42.25 mills is imposed upon the 

consumption of each cigarette in this state;

(b) A tax equal to 30 percent of the wholesale price of

each cigar is imposed upon the consumption of each
cigar in this state; and

(c) A tax equal to 30 percent of the wholesale price 

of each other tobacco product is imposed upon the 
consumption of each other tobacco product in this
state.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
63 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50
Explanatory Statement

This measure would amend the Oregon Constitution to 

provide dedicated funding for children’s health care and other
health programs through an increase in the tobacco tax. 
The measure would raise the cigarette tax by 84.5 cents per
pack to equalize it with the cigarette tax in the State of
Washington. The measure would also raise the tax on cigars
and other tobacco products.

The new revenue generated by this measure would be 

dedicated to the following purposes:
1. Providing health care to children.
2. Providing health care to low-income adults.
3. Providing health care to other medically underserved

Oregonians.

4. Preventing tobacco use.
If the measure passes, it will be implemented by 

Senate Bill 3, which the legislature passed earlier this year. 
That legislation:

1. Creates the Healthy Kids Program, which is designed to

provide affordable health care to uninsured children in Oregon.
The Healthy Kids Program expands eligibility for existing health
insurance programs, streamlines and simplifies application
procedures and creates a new children’s health care pool to
lower health care costs.

2. Provides affordable health care for 10,000 low-income

adults through the Oregon Health Plan.

3. Expands funding for rural health care and safety net 

clinics.

4. Expands funding of Oregon’s Tobacco Use Reduction

Account.

Under Senate Bill 3, approximately 70 percent of the new
tobacco tax revenue through 2011 would be allocated to the
Healthy Kids Program; approximately 18 percent would be 
allocated to health care for low-income adults; approximately 
4 percent would be allocated to rural health services and safety
net clinics; and approximately 8 percent would be allocated to
tobacco prevention.

If this measure fails, the Healthy Kids Program and other
health care expansions in Senate Bill 3 will not become law.

(This impartial statement explaining the measure was provided by the
2007 Legislature.)

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
64 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Legislative Argument in Support

Argument in Favor

Oregon’s kids simply can’t wait any longer. There are
117,000 Oregon children who don’t have health care.
Oregon’s Children and Families at Risk
They are on the playground, one misstep away from a broken
arm. They are in the close quarters of a classroom, one sneeze
away from catching the flu. They wait in emergency rooms, 
facing serious illnesses that could have been avoided. Without
treatment, routine illnesses turn into major tragedies, and 
families can be financially devastated. 
Public Calls for Action
There is no good reason why 117,000 Oregon kids should not
have access to affordable health care. There’s no good reason
why they shouldn’t be able to get their shots and regular 
check-ups like their classmates. That’s why the Legislature has
brought you Measure 50. And that’s why nurses, doctors, 
parents, and community advocates from across Oregon asked
for the Healthy Kids Plan and are supporting it wholeheartedly.
A Responsible Plan
By making our per-pack cigarette tax the same as Washington
State, Measure 50 will help parents afford the health care their
uninsured children desperately need. While parents will still
have to pitch in for some of the cost, the Healthy Kids Plan
means they won’t have to choose between health insurance
and paying rent. And because Measure 50 is constitutionally
dedicated to health care and smoking prevention programs, 
the money can’t be used for other purposes unless voters
approve it. 
Guaranteeing uninsured kids have access to health care is not
only the right thing to do because it’s cost effective, but raising
the price of tobacco is the right way to do it. Measure 50 will
save all of us from footing the bill for expensive emergency
room visits for the uninsured and help re-pay taxpayers for the
cost of tobacco-related illness.
Vote YES on Measure 50
Measure 50 fulfills our moral obligation to care for our children,
and we ask for your support to make Healthy Kids a reality in
Oregon.

Committee Members:
Senator Laurie Monnes Anderson
Representative Tina Kotek
Representative Jeff Merkley

Appointed by:
President of the Senate
Speaker of the House
Speaker of the House

(This Joint Legislative Committee was appointed to provide the 
legislative argument in support of the ballot measure pursuant to 
ORS 251.245.)

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
65 | State Measures

Oregon’s Healthy Kids Plan: a Truly Comprehensive Plan

It’s about keeping Kids Healthy Now and in the Future

Why do both the Oregon Pediatric Society and
Children First for Oregon support Measure 50?

Measure 50: A Real Plan, a Real Solution for Oregon…
-Oregon’s Healthy Kids Plan will provide 100,000 uninsured kids
with the health care they need
-Oregon’s Healthy Kids Plan will cover preventive care, such as,
immunizations, well-child visits and other cost saving services
-Oregon’s Healthy Kids Plan is comprehensive; it will cover
physical health, dental care and mental health services
-Oregon’s Healthy Kids Plan means kids without insurance will
stop going to emergency rooms instead of doctors… that saves
money and lives
Measure 50: Strengthens Youth Prevention Programs
-The tobacco industry targets our children by selling cigarettes
and tobacco products that taste like candy. The tobacco 
industry is talking to our kids and it’s only fair that we talk to
them, too.
-Secondhand smoke exposes kids to cancer-causing chemicals
and increases childhood asthma and preventable respiratory
illness.
- Every day in Oregon, forty-eight kids smoke their first 
cigarette. Most adult smokers got hooked before they were 
18 years old. Tobacco prevention is the single biggest cost 
savings there is: for every $1 spent it saves $3 in 
tobacco-related costs.
-Oregon’s Tobacco Prevention and Education program would
finally have the resources it needs to reduce youth smoking and
effectively keep kids from starting to smoke in the first place.
Measure 50: It’s Fair, It’s Responsible, It Just Makes
Sense
It’s time to do something about health care and there is no 
better place to start than with our kids…the wealthiest nation
on earth should be the healthiest nation on earth. Oregon’s
Healthy Kids Plan is a common-sense approach to meeting our
health care and prevention needs.

Every Child Deserves Healthcare!

Please Join Us:

Children First for Oregon
Oregon Pediatric Society
Vote YES on Measure 50

(This information furnished by Dr. Jim Lace, Oregon Pediatric Society.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

The Most Trusted Names in American Health

Recommend YES vote on Measure 50!

American Cancer Society

American Heart Association/American Stroke Association

American Lung Association of Oregon

Who Opposes Measure 50?

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

The TOBACCO INDUSTRY

The Tobacco Industry, a powerful special interest, is coming to
Oregon from out of state to spend millions of dollars in an effort
to mislead voters about Measure 50.
WHY?

Because Big Tobacco Loses Money if They Can’t Get

Kids Hooked on Cigarettes—and that’s what 
Measure 50 does, prevents kids from smoking

Measure 50: Strengthens Oregon Tobacco Prevention
Tobacco prevention works. For every $1 spent on prevention
efforts, $3 is saved in public costs. The Surgeon General and
the Institute of Medicine have reviewed the evidence and 
confirm prevention programs work in a published report: 
State Programs Can Reduce Tobacco Use.
Measure 50: Prevents Kids from Ever Starting to Smoke
The tobacco industry targets our children by selling cigarettes
and tobacco products that taste like candy. Every day in
Oregon, forty-eight kids smoke their first cigarette. Nearly half
of them will still be smoking next year. One-third of them will
die from a smoking-caused illness. The Healthy Kids Plan 
will strengthen Oregon’s highly successful Tobacco Prevention
and Education program. Big Tobacco is talking to our kids; it’s
only fair that we talk to them too.
Measure 50: Don’t be Fooled by Big Tobacco
The Tobacco Industry has a history of opposing measures 
similar to Measure 50. They have a lot at stake…both profits
and future smokers. 90% of smokers became addicted while
they were teens and prevention programs are a real threat. Big
Tobacco has pledged to spend over $3 million in Oregon to
defeat Measure 50.
Don’t let that happen. Join us, the American Cancer Society, 
the American Heart/American Stroke Association, and the
American Lung Association of Oregon, in supporting 50.

Measure 50 comes down to Big Tobacco v. Kids
STAND UP TO BIG TOBACCO BY VOTING YES on 50!

(This information furnished by John Valley, American Heart Association/
American Stroke Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Oregon’s Nurses and Nurse Practitioners Urge You to

Vote Yes For Kids
Vote Yes for Health
Vote Yes for Families

Vote Yes on 50

To Oregon nurses and nurse practitioners, 117,000 Oregon 
children without healthcare isn’t an abstract issue. It is 
something that we deal with every day.
It is that front-line experience that makes us such
strong supporters of Measure 50.
What happens when a child doesn’t have health care coverage?
They do not get the basic preventive care that keeps them
healthy – and keeps a small problem from becoming a life-
threatening one. And it puts thousands of families in both
emotional and financial distress.

A Child Without Healthcare Is Costly For All of Us
When a child cannot afford to see the doctor, an Emergency
Room becomes their first stop for healthcare. That is the most
costly form of treatment. Whether through the spending of 
tax dollars or higher health insurance premiums, we all end up
paying the price.

Measure 50 Is Fair and Will Reduce

Long-Term Health Care Costs

Not only will Measure 50 make health care possible for all
Oregon children, it will also save lives and reduce the costly
harm of smoking by preventing kids from smoking in the first
place. Tobacco use imposes a tremendous financial and health
burden on Oregonians: Measure 50 is fair because it will help
reduce and repay the long-term costs of smoking.

This is an Urgent Problem

As Oregonians, we should take pride in how we care for our
children. Unfortunately, the fact that so many of our kids are
locked out of health care is a scandal. Measure 50 is a simple,
fair and smart solution to a genuine crisis. Kids can’t wait, and
there is no reason that we should wait to do the right thing for
them– and for Oregon.

Please Vote Yes on Measure 50

Oregon Nurses Association
Nurse Practitioners of Oregon

(This information furnished by Sue B. Davidson, PhD, RN, CNS, Oregon
Nurses Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

The Oregon PTA Supports Measure 50

Because the PTA Cares About Kids

For over 100 years the Oregon PTA has been a strong voice
advocating on behalf of all of Oregon’s children. The Oregon
PTA has over 20,000 members and 240 local units.
The Oregon PTA has long advocated on issues of public 
education, child health and safety. A priority for us is to help
children avoid the use of tobacco and other drugs.

KNOW THE FACTS ABOUT TOBACCO AND OUR KIDS

Youth and Tobacco Use in Oregon
• 17% of high school students smoke
• 16,500 kids try cigarettes for the first time each year
• 6.9 million cigarette packs annually are bought/smoked
Youth Tobacco Use in the United States
• 4,000 kids try their first cigarette everyday
• 1,000 kids become regular, daily smokers
The Tobacco Industry is Talking to Our Kids
• $15.4 Billion—Yearly Tobacco Industry marketing budget
• $36 Million—Daily Tobacco Industry marking budget
• $139 Million—Yearly estimated amount Tobacco Industry

spends on marketing in Oregon

WHAT BIG TOBACCO DOESN’T WANT YOU TO KNOW
Raising the Price of Tobacco Helps Keep Kids from
Smoking—and the Tobacco Industry Knows it…
Phillip Morris: “It is clear that price has pronounced effect on
smoking prevalence among teenagers…”
RJ Reynolds: “If prices were 10% higher, 12-17 incidence (the
percentage of kids who smoke) would be 11.9% lower.”

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
66 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Phillip Morris: “…1982-83 round of price increases…prevented
600,000 teens from starting to smoke…We don’t need that to
happen again.”

How Do We Fight Big Tobacco?

Pass Measure 50: Make Cigarettes More Expensive

Measure 50 Projected Benefits in Oregon—
• 12.7% Decline in youth smoking
• 29,500 kids won’t become smokers
• 3,850 smoking-affected births avoided over the next 5 years
• 9,400 kids saved later from smoking-caused death

Please Join Oregon’s Leading Senior Groups

Vote YES on Measure 50

Healthier Kids Means A Healthier Oregon For All of Us!

(This information furnished by Verna Porter, Oregon Alliance for Retired
Americans.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Please Join the Oregon PTA
VOTE YES ON MEASURE 50

Argument in Favor

Put Oregon’s Kids Ahead of Big Tobacco Profits Today!

(This information furnished by Anita Olsen, Oregon PTA.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Please Join Us, Oregon’s Leading Senior Groups

In VOTING YES on Measure 50!

Gray Panthers of Oregon

Oregon State Council for Retired Citizens

Save Oregon Seniors

United Seniors of Oregon

Oregon Alliance for Retired Americans

An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure…

Measure 50 will provide 100,000 kids in Oregon with the health-
care coverage they need…and that will save a lot of money
making health care services more available for all the rest of us.
Measure 50 strengthens Oregon’s proven Tobacco Prevention
and Education Program…and that saves money now and in the
future.
Measure 50 is Smart for Kids and Smart for Seniors
Providing healthcare coverage to kids is smart medicine for
Oregon and something every senior in this state should 
support. When Kids without health insurance end up getting
routine medical care through hospital emergency rooms, it
breaks the bank for all of us.
Measure 50: Makes Healthcare More Available
Even though most kids are basically healthy, children do need
routine and preventive health care. Providing immunizations
and other preventive health services saves a ton of public and
private money in both the long and short-term…but not when
that care is being provided in the Emergency Room. Emergency
Room care is hugely expensive and puts a stress on the health-
care delivery system. Providing coverage for 100,000 kids helps
solve this problem.
Measure 50 Bolsters Tobacco Prevention Program
Tobacco education is the best prevention we can buy; for every
$1 spent on prevention it saves the state $3 in tobacco-related
costs. That means there are more resources available for other
health care programs and senior services. Tobacco prevention
saves money right away and in the future.
MEASURE 50 IS A FAIR & COMMON SENSE PROPOSAL

We’re Parents, Aunts & Uncles, Grandparents,

Great Aunts & Uncles…One Generation, Caring for the Next!

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
67 | State Measures

WORKING FAMILIES SHOULD SUPPORT MEASURE 50

AFSCME Council 75 asks you to support Measure 50 and the
uninsured children of Oregon that will be the main beneficiaries
of the measure. AFSCME represents over 23,000 working 
people in Oregon and we care deeply about its citizens.
This Measure will help keep kids healthy now and in the future.
It will help the over 100,000 children who don’t have health 
coverage get the health care they need and deserve. Parents
shouldn’t have to worry about what they will do if their child
becomes injured or ill. Every parent wants to protect their 
family and Measure 50 will help working families do just that.
Measure 50 reflects basic Oregon values by:

• ensuring every child in Oregon has the ability to be 

protected by health insurance. It will improve access and
help kids get preventive medicine which improves health
and saves money.

• funding safety-net clinics and rural health care facilities. 

It will help kids who are really living at the margins as well
as improving access to health care in rural communities.

• helping us prevent tobacco use: a leading cause of illness.
Not only will it strengthen tobacco prevention programs to
help keep kids from getting hooked on tobacco, it will
make cessation programs more available people who
already smoke.

Measure 50 is important not only for the thousands it will 
protect and the thousands it will help but also because it
embodies basic Oregon values. Measure 50 is a chance for
Oregon to be a leader in providing health care to kids who 
need it. This is just the kind of forward thinking that Oregon is
known for.

Let’s Put Oregon’s Kids Ahead of 

Tobacco Company Profits.

Please Join AFSCME in Voting YES on Measure 50.

(This information furnished by Joe Baessler, AFSCME Council 75.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Governor Kulongoski urges you to 

vote yes on Measure 50 

Oregon’s children cannot wait any longer 

Today there are more than 100,000 children in Oregon who do
not have health care coverage, which is a tragedy for them and
their families. 
Uninsured children are less likely to get preventative care, such
as regular check ups and vaccinations. They are more likely to
get sick than other children and stay sicker longer. Often they
are treated at emergency rooms when desperate parents have

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

no place else to go. That places a heavy burden both on the 
children’s health and on the public that pays the cost each time
a sick child without insurance is treated at the emergency room. 
With Measure 50, Oregonians have the opportunity to stand up
and take care of these children. 
Too many working parents in Oregon are stretching their 
paychecks as far as they can to pay for housing and to put food
on the table. They simply cannot afford the skyrocketing cost of
health insurance for their children. Imagine their sleepless
nights worrying about what will happen if a child gets sick. The
Healthy Kids Plan gives them a chance - it is based on a shared
responsibility model that allows these families to buy private
insurance on a sliding-fee scale. 
Measure 50’s funding for tobacco prevention is also a smart
investment. For every dollar invested in tobacco education, we
save $3.00 in future health care costs by preventing thousands
of kids from starting to smoke. 
That’s why the only real opposition to Measure 50 comes from
the tobacco industry, which is spending millions of dollars to
keep people smoking and protect their bottom line. 
Oregon’s children cannot wait any longer. We live in the richest
nation in the world. None of us should rest as long as there is
one child without access to affordable health care. 
Please join me in voting yes on Measure 50. 
Ted Kulongoski
Governor 

(This information furnished by Ted Kulongoski, Governor.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

The Urban League of Portland

Supports Measure 50

LET’S PUT OUR KIDS BEFORE
TOBACCO INDUSTRY PROFITS

Don’t Be Misled By Big Tobacco…
Cigarette companies say they oppose higher cigarette prices
because they care about low-income and minority families. 
But these are the same companies that have been profiting off
of low-income communities for decades.
Low-income and minority populations in Oregon already 
suffer disproportionately from smoking-caused disease, 
disability, death, and costs (thanks in no small part to cigarette
company marketing tactics). Making tobacco more expensive
will actually help more lower-income smokers quit, and will
reduce the harm to smokers and their families—while at
the same time reduce costs to their employers and all
the rest of us. 
Big Tobacco Targets Minority Youth
Nearly 80% of smokers start before age 18, and the majority of
kids smoke the three most heavily advertised brands, according
to independent studies by the Surgeon General and the
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
One of these brands, Newport, is the cigarette brand leader 
for African-American youths in the U.S. Even more troubling,
eight of every ten black, youth smokers smoke Newports. 
Big Tobacco’s Tactics Have Disturbing Effects
The Tobacco Industry has specifically targeted low-income and
minority communities through market research and aggressive
advertising. The industry’s “investment” in these communities
has had a destructive impact:

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
68 | State Measures

• From 1986-1988, tobacco related diseased killed 9,566

American Indians (44% of total American Indian deaths and
double the tobacco-related death rate for other Americans). 

• According to the Centers for Disease Control, an estimated
1.6 million black Americans alive today, who are under the
age of 18, will become regular smokers, and 500,000 will die
early from a tobacco-related disease.

DON’T BE BLINDED BY

THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY SMOKESCREEN

They oppose 50 to protect their own profits.

Join the Urban League of Portland

in Supporting Measure 50…

Let’s keep ALL Oregon’s kids healthy now

and in the future.

Find more facts at www.healthykids-oregon.org.

(This information furnished by Courtni Dresser, Yes on the Healthy Kids
Plan.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

WE CAN’T STAND UP FOR CHILDREN,

UNLESS WE STAND UP TO BIG TOBACCO!

A  Leading Children’s Group in Oregon: Stand for Children

Urges Vote YES on Measure 50!

Measure 50 Helps Oregon’s Kids…Now and in the Future

Let’s Give Kids the Healthcare They Need and Deserve!
• Measure 50: Provides health care for 100,000 kids who are

without health insurance

• Measure 50: Strengthens youth tobacco prevention and

education programs

• Measure 50: Means more preventive care, such as 

immunizations and well-baby visits

Oregon’s Healthy Kids Plan: We’re Almost There!

• Oregon’s Healthy Kids Plan is the single most important

health care reform proposal to come along in more than a
decade.

• Oregon’s Healthy Kids Plan is just the kind of forward

thinking Oregon is known for…something we can all be
proud of!

• The Legislature referred the Healthy Kids Plan 

(Measure 50) to the ballot, but unfortunately that only 
gets us half-way way there. 

• Parents, children’s groups, health care advocates, and

tobacco prevention experts worked hard in Salem to pass
the Healthy Kids Plan, but the Tobacco Industry Lobbyists
were able to block its passage. That’s why Measure 50 is
on the ballot now.

Kids Can’t Do It for Themselves: They Need You
Oregon’s kids are depending on you…on all of us, to do one
simple thing…vote YES on Measure 50. 

Please Join Stand for Children Voting 

YES on Measure 50 

It is Fair for Kids and Fair for Oregon

Pauline McGuire, parent (Clackamas County)

Katherine Hoppe, business person (Coos County)

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Kathy Sansone retired teacher (Salem)

Karen Starchvick, parent (Medford)

Jennifer Robbins, parent/teacher (Hillsboro)

Tina Ficher, Parent (Bend)

(This information furnished by Jonah Edelman, Stand for Children.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Leading Health Care Advocates, Doctors and Nurses
From Across the State Of Oregon Support Measure 50
We’re on the frontlines everyday, and we’re charged with 
taking care of Oregon’s children. That’s why we support the
Healthy Kids Plan.
Measure 50 really is a Healthy Kids Plan, it will provide 100,000
uninsured children with the health care they need and deserve.
Daily we see kids without health coverage come into 
emergency rooms for routine care because they cannot access
even basic health care at a pediatrician’s office. That’s 
expensive and a stress on the health care delivery system for
both providers and patients.
Let’s face it…with over 100,000 kids in Oregon needing health-
care coverage; we have a crisis in this state. We need to act
now…our kids can’t wait another day.
Measure 50 will keep Oregon’s kids healthy now and in the
future.

PLEASE PUT THE HEALTH OF OREGON’S KIDS AHEAD

OF TOBACCO INDUSTRY PROFITS
Join Us… Doctors, Nurses and 
Leading Health Care Groups
In Voting YES on Measure 50!

Carlos Sánchez, MD, Emergency Physician (Portland)

Every Child Deserves Healthcare!

THANK YOU FOR VOTING YES ON 50

(This information furnished by Courtni Dresser, Yes on the Healthy Kids
Plan.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

My name is Eric Jones from Gresham. I lost my wife in July
2003 to cancer caused by 34 years of smoking cigarettes. 
Patty became hooked when it was “cool” and “safe” to smoke.
Now we know better - smoking kills you!
Patty battled her cancer with courage and grace - she was my
hero. I miss her everyday.
Patty would be fighting to pass Measure 50. I will do it in her
memory.
After her diagnoses, she told over 4,000 Oregon teens and
youth her story. She told them that when you smoke, you are
betting that you are stronger than one of the most powerfully
addicting substances on the planet.
Patty lost that bet. She paid with her life. So did my family, 
who lost her forever. Our daughters and I watched her take her
final breath. No one should go through this as a result of
tobacco use! 
Patty tried to quit many times. She had no Oregon Quit Line to
call, no tobacco prevention program to help her quit her deadly
addiction. Now these tools exist, but not nearly to the extent we
need them. She wanted these programs to be as effective as
they could be to prevent our youth from starting smoking and
to help smokers quit. 
Measure 50 will go a long way in achieving this goal. More 
prevention and cessation tools will keep you and your loved
ones and friends from suffering the same terrible death that my
wife experienced. 
Big tobacco spends over $400,000 in Oregon EVERYDAY 
advertising its products to young people. They are viewed as
the next target in a war to make a profit. Let’s tell big tobacco
Oregonians care about our kid’s health, not about their big
profit! 
Please join me in supporting Measure 50, for all our
kids, grandchildren and especially in Patty’s memory. 

(This information furnished by Courtni Dresser, American Cancer
Society.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Measure 50 Will Give a Boost to Oregon’s

Proven Anti-Smoking Programs

• Imagine an Oregon where Big Tobacco can no longer hook

our kids on their deadly products.

• Imagine an Oregon where fewer parents smoke or use

tobacco. 

• Imagine an Oregon where fewer kids are exposed to the 

dangers of secondhand smoke.

• Imagine an Oregon where our kids are healthier.

Stewart S. Newman, MD (Beaverton) - Oregon Medical Assoc.

Oregon Medical Association
Oregon Nurses Association
James K. Lace, MD (Salem)

Jane Sawall, RN (Medford)

Harold Fleshman, RN (Milwaukie)

Oregon Pediatric Society

Sandra Dunbrasky, MD (Ontario)

Sarah Arnholtz, RN (Salem)

Oregon Association of Nurse Anesthetists

Patricia DeShazer, RN (Lakeview)

Debbie Lund, RN (Springfield)

Irene Dudley, RN (Bend)

Lane County Medical Society

Gayle Lewis, NP (Jacksonville)

Galen Thompson, RN (Pendleton)
Klaus Martin, MD (McMinnville)
Oregon Psychiatric Association

Chabrise Haich, LPN (Salem)

Kelly Rae Taylor, RN (Washington Co.)

Cindy Johnson, RN (Astoria)
John Evans, MD (Portland)
Mary P. Brown, MD (Bend)

Nurse Practitioners of Oregon
Susanna Rhodes, RN (Aloha)
Kim Hubbard, RN (Milwaukie)

Karen Elliott, RN (Turner)

Monica Wenby, MD (Portland)
Bruce Humpherys, RN (Bend)

Oregon Academy of Family Physicians

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
69 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

We no longer need to imagine that Oregon.

A YES vote for Measure 50 will bolster 

anti-smoking efforts with a proven track record; 

making our dream a reality.

When it comes to preventing tobacco use and saving lives, 
we know what works- Oregon’s highly effective and 
comprehensive Tobacco Prevention and Education Program. 
Since many factors influence a person’s decision to use
tobacco, we must tackle this problem from several different
directions at once. The program approaches tobacco 
prevention from many angles – where people live, work and
play. 
Oregon’s Tobacco Prevention and Education Program uses
proven methods by focusing on the following three goals:

• Keeping kids from starting
• Helping people quit
• Educating Oregonians about the dangers of 

secondhand smoke

Hailed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as a
national model, Oregon achieves its goals through multiple
components including school and community programs, the
Oregon Tobacco Quit Line (1-800-QUIT-NOW) and intensive
program evaluation.

How Do We Know Anti-Tobacco Education Works?

Evaluation and Accountability

Oregon’s program undergoes extensive professional 
evaluation to measure its effectiveness, and the data 
demonstrates how tobacco use is impacted by various 
strategies. Oregon uses “best practices,” proven effective 
by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Big Tobacco Has Big Concerns About Tobacco
Prevention.
The Tobacco Industry is talking to our kids; we should be too.
Big Tobacco knows these programs work, and they don’t 
want to see them strengthened—that is why they will spend
millions of dollars to defeat Measure 50.

The Tobacco-Free Coalition of Oregon
Advocates Voting YES on Measure 50!

(This information furnished by Tabithia Engle, Tobacco-Free Coalition of
Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

A Message from the Oregon Business Association

Good for Jobs. Good for the Economy.

Measure 50:

As Oregonians, we are very concerned that there are over
100,000 children who are not covered by health insurance.
Measure 50 is simply the right thing to do.
We also strongly support Measure 50 as members of Oregon’s
business community, because when people are uninsured, it
costs jobs, hurts the economy and increases the cost of doing
business.

• Nationally, almost 44 million people lack health coverage.

The economic impact of the lack of health insurance on
productivity, absenteeism, turnover, and increased health
care costs has been estimated to be as high as $152 billion
per year.

• When a child or adult doesn’t have health coverage, they
are much more likely to use an emergency room as their
first stop. That is the most expensive kind of care; the cost
of this “uncompensated care” is shifted to the premiums
of those who do have health insurance premiums.
Nationally, this costs employers up to $16 billion a year.
• Employers, faced with those higher premium costs, are

facing the difficult decision of either passing on the costs
to employees, eliminating coverage for dependents, or
eliminating work-based coverage altogether.

By making sure that all Oregon’s children have access to health
care, Measure 50 will make real progress. It will help reduce
costs to Oregon’s economy, making it easier for businesses to
add jobs and stay competitive.

When Oregon Families are Healthy

Oregon’s Economy is Healthy

Vote Yes on Measure 50

(This information furnished by Lynn Lundquist, Oregon Business
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Measure 50 is Fair!

WHAT DOES SMOKING COST EVERY ONE OF US?

Every Pack of Cigarettes Sold in Oregon

Costs Taxpayers $11.16

Tobacco Use is Costly—We All Pay a High Price
$1.11 Billion—Annual healthcare expenditures in Oregon
directly caused by tobacco use
$54.9 Million—Annual healthcare expenditures in Oregon
from secondhand smoke exposure
$836.6 Million—Annual amount paid by citizens in State &
Federal taxes to cover smoking-caused government costs
Tobacco Use is Dangerous & Deadly
5,000—Annual deaths in Oregon of adults who smoke
168,000—Annual deaths in the U.S. from tobacco-caused 
cancers 
3,600—Oregon kids who have lost at least one parent to 
smoking
74,000—Oregon kids who are alive in the state today who will
ultimately die from smoking (given current smoking levels)

Smoking-Caused Costs to Oregon

$11.16 The real cost per pack of cigarettes 

(Tobacco & secondhand smoke-related disease;
heart, lung and other health; work productivity, 
disability, property loss from fire—all the actual
costs of tobacco use, per pack, in Oregon)
The Price We ALL Pay for Smokers

$11.16 Smoking-related costs per pack in Oregon
-$2.025 Oregon would collect per pack if 50 passes 
$9.135 Per pack difference (underpayment for the cost of

tobacco use)

ALL OF US END UP PAYING MORE THAN OUR FAIR SHARE

WAY MORE…

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
70 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

It would take a $9 dollar per pack increase to 
compensate us—taxpayers--for the high cost of
tobacco-use in Oregon. Measure 50 only asks for 
one-tenth of this amount.

WHAT CAN WE DO?

Vote YES on Measure 50. It’s an important investment in
Oregon’s children and Oregon’s economic future.

MEASURE 50: IT’S FAIR FOR OREGON!
For more info: www.healthykids-oregon.org

(This information furnished by Angela Martin, Economic Fairness
Coalition of Our Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Physicians and Community Hospitals

Support Measure 50

It’s past time to provide health care coverage for 
Oregon’s children…our kids can’t wait another day.

Health Care Coverage Improves Kids’ Lives

Doctors and your local community hospitals see the need for
health care coverage every day. 
Insured children are more likely to receive vaccines that will
prevent life-threatening diseases. They are more likely to
receive dental and mental healthcare; to use seatbelts, car
safety seats and bike helmets and to finish school. Insured 
children are less likely to start smoking. Insured children will
live better and healthier lives. 

Health Care Coverage for Kids is a Cost-Saver

Insured children are more likely to have a regular doctor and
two times less likely to use the emergency room for their 
health care. Every vaccinated child saves hundreds of dollars 
in preventative health care costs. Insured children and 
their parents build ongoing relationships by seeing the same 
physician who knows their medical histories. 
The Healthy Kids Plan:

A Comprehensive Approach for Oregon Kids

Measure 50 will:
1. Provide 100,000 children under the age of 19 with access to
primary care, dental services and mental health treatment.
2. Strengthen Oregon’s Tobacco Prevention and Education 
program to keep kids from ever starting to smoke and help
those who smoke to quit.
3. Guarantee the revenue raised by Measure 50 is used for
health care or tobacco prevention. It’s in the Constitution, and
can only be changed by your vote. 
Please Join Oregon’s Doctors and Community Hospitals

Across Oregon in Voting YES on Measure 50

Oregon Medical Association

Oregon Association of Hospitals and Health Systems

St. Charles Medical Center (Bend & Redmond)
Three Rivers Community Hospital (Grants Pass).

Salem Regional Medical Center (Salem)

PeaceHealth (Eugene)

Samaritan Health Services (Corvallis)
Providence Health & Services (Oregon)

Tuality Healthcare (Hillsboro)

Good Shepherd Health Care System (Hermiston)

Adventist Health (Portland & Tillamook) (Tillamook)

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
71 | State Measures

(This information furnished by Joanne K. Bryson, CAE, Executive
Director, Oregon Medical Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Working Families Unite for Healthy Kids Plan

It’s Fair for Families and Fair for Oregon
When it Comes to Health Insurance, Too Many of
Oregon’s Working Families Are Left Behind

• More than 80,000 Oregonians have lost their employer

provided health insurance in the past four years 

• More than 75% of uninsured Oregonians work full time
and 91% of uninsured Oregon children have at least one
parent who works full time

• The average health insurance premium for a family is
more than a full time worker would make at the federal
minimum wage

• As health care costs rise, more employers are either 

reducing coverage or forced to shift the costs to 
employees and their families 

As Employers Cut or Reduce Health Coverage, Oregon’s
Children and Families Pay the Price

• The high cost of health care impacts all of us: businesses,
government and working families; forcing employers to
drop coverage for their employees and their kids

• Families cannot afford to buy health care coverage for

their kids. The average cost of a family premium--$11,880
per year-- is out of reach for many working families. 

• Many uninsured kids are forced into Emergency Rooms
where they receive the most expensive care available. 
This raises costs for everyone and puts a burden on the
entire health care delivery system

• Kids should be at the front of the line when it comes to
health care: Let’s protect the most important resource
Oregon has: our kids!
PLEASE JOIN MORE THAN 96,000 of OREGON’S 

WORKING FAMILIES

PLEASE, VOTE YES ON BALLOT MEASURE 50

SEIU Local 503
SEIU Local 49

Oregon Education Association

Oregon State Fire Fighters Council

(This information furnished by Arthur Towers, SEIU 503.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

PEOPLE OF FAITH UNITE FOR MEASURE 50

Please Join Us in Voting YES!

Faith Leaders Support Measure 50…

The Healthy Kids Plan will help children and families
most in need. 

This plan will provide much needed health care programs to
improve the health of all Oregonians, including children and our
state’s lowest income families through the Oregon Health Plan. 

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Faith Leaders Support Measure 50… 

It finally gets kids the health care they need. 
It’s truly a healthy kids plan.
Measure 50 is fair for kids and fair for Oregon: it’s about keeping
Oregon’s children healthy now and in the future. 
Health care has long been a special concern of all our faiths.
Some of the ways in which have expressed that concern is by
founding hospitals and other health care institutions and
through direct person-to-person work with the sick and poor
throughout the world. 
Faith Leaders Support Measure 50…

It’s not just reasonable; it’s a moral imperative.
We find it morally unacceptable that more than 100,000 Oregon
children currently lack health insurance and that health insur-
ance has become unaffordable for many working Oregonians. 

The Wealthiest Nation on Earth Should be the

Healthiest Nation on Earth

WE ARE LEADERS OF FAITH COMMUNITIES HERE IN 

OREGON AND WE STRONGLY SUPPORT MEASURE 50: 

Rev. Alcena Boozer, St. Philip the Deacon

Episcopal Church, Portland 

Rev. Dan Bryant, First Christian Church (Disciples of 

Christ), Eugene

Rev. Benjamin Dake, First Presbyterian Church, 

Cottage Grove 

Rev. Gail McDougle, First Congregational Church (United

Church of Christ), Salem

Rabbi Daniel Isaak, Congregation Neveh Shalom, 

Portland

David Leslie, Executive Director, 
Ecumenical Ministries of Oregon

Rev. David Nagler, Nativity Lutheran Church, Bend 

Rev. Jim Boston, St. Luke’s Episcopal Church, Grants Pass

Shahriar Ahmed, President, Bilal Mosque Association,

Beaverton 

Please VOTE YES on Measure 50

(This information furnished by Kevin Finney, Ecumenical Ministries of
Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

No family should have to substitute the 

emergency room for a pediatrician’s office.

So Who Could be Against Healthy Kids? BIG TOBACCO.
The Healthy Kids Plan is good for kids and good for Oregon. But
Big Tobacco doesn’t like it because it will reduce the number 
of smokers – and their profits. That is why the tobacco industry
employed an army of lobbyists to block it in the legislature. 
Oregon’s Healthy Kids Plan: It’s Fair, It Just Makes
Sense.
We referred Measure 50 to the ballot. Now it’s your turn. We
need your help to make Oregon’s Healthy Kids Plan a reality.
We need you to do one simple thing for the children of
Oregon…we need you to vote YES on Measure 50 by
November 6, 2007. 

Measure 50 is your chance to say that the health 

of children, the well-being of families and 

the future of Oregon are more important than 

the tobacco industry’s profits.

PLEASE VOTE YES ON MEASURE 50!

Sen. Laurie Monnes Anderson
Gresham
Sen. Bill Morrisette
Springfield
Rep. Suzanne Bonamici
Washington County
Rep. Ben Cannon
Northeast/Southeast Portland
Rep. Sara Gelser
Corvallis and Philomath
Rep. Mitch Greenlick
House District 33, NW Portland and Washington County
Rep. Tina Kotek
North/Northeast Portland

(This information furnished by Rep. Tina Kotek.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

OREGON AFL-CIO

Working Family Index for Measure 50:

Number of uninsured children in Oregon: over 100,000

Direct and Indirect healthcare costs to Oregon due to smoking:

$2 Billion

More Than 100,000 Kids Need Health Care in Oregon

That’s Why the Healthy Kids Plan is on the Ballot.

Your share of those costs (per household): 

$587 per year

Now It’s Up to You: PLEASE VOTE YES on 50!
Oregon’s kids shouldn’t have to wait another day!

As lawmakers who worked long and hard on Oregon’s Healthy
Kids Plan, we strongly endorse Measure 50, which provides
100,000 uninsured kids with health care and supports 
prevention and education programs to curb tobacco use. 
We Heard Oregon Families Loud and Clear.
The Legislature’s Health Care Committees heard many hours of
testimony about the hardships families are facing. Many of the
stories were heartbreaking.

No parent should have to worry about what they 
would do if their child becomes sick or injured. 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
72 | State Measures

Those same health care costs if figured on a per pack basis:

$11.16

Oregon Children who started smoking today: 45

Dollars spent by Tobacco Corporations on marketing 

nationwide: $15.4 Billion

Dollars spent by Tobacco Corporations marketing just in

Oregon: $135 Million

Additional dollars to be spent by Tobacco Corporations to

defeat the Healthy Kids Measure: over $3 Million

(source: The Oregonian8/28/07)

Reasons to trust the Tobacco Corporations: 0

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Reasons to pass the Healthy Kids Plan Measure 50: 

over 100,000

Chances to stand up to big tobacco and deliver health coverage

for Oregon kids: 1

The Oregon AFL-CIO represents over 145,000 families,

union and non-union, across Oregon in the fight for

good jobs, health care, worker safety, 

and retirement.

(This information furnished by Courtni Dresser, American Cancer
Society.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

We believe that healthy kids mean a stronger Oregon.

Oregon Association for the Education of Young Children

Please join us in voting “Yes” on Measure 50 for 

the Healthy Kids Plan.

Oregon Association of Nurse Anesthetists

Terry Colplin, Lane Individual Practice Association

(This information furnished by Duke Shepard, Oregon AFL-CIO.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Children’s Groups, Healthcare Leaders,

Tobacco Prevention Experts and Many Others…

CALL ON ALL OREGONIANS TO VOTE “YES”

ON MEASURE 50!

Measure 50 is Fair for Kids and Fair for Oregon: The
Healthy Kids Plan is about keeping Oregon’s children
healthy now and in the future. 
It’s only fair we provide health insurance for 100,000 uninsured
Oregon children and it’s only fair we strengthen important
tobacco prevention programs to address the single greatest
preventable cost to our health care system: smoking.
Children’s access to healthcare and the cost of 
smoking-caused diseases are everyone’s problem…that’s
why dozens of organizations we all know and trust are rallying
around Oregon’s Healthy Kids Plan…

Who Supports Measure 50?

American Cancer Society

Anita Olsen, President, Oregon PTA

Oregon Pediatric Society

Oregon Business Association
Oregon Medical Association

Oregon Alliance for Retired Americans (ORARA)
Bob Livingston, Oregon State Fire Fighters Council

Oregon Nurses Association

American Heart Association/American Stroke Association

Children First for Oregon

Oregon Education Association

Oregon Dental Association

American Lung Association of Oregon

Mark McKechnie, MSW, Legislative Chair, 

National Association of Social Workers – Oregon Chapter

Oregon Association of Hospitals and Health Systems

Gray Panthers of Oregon

SEIU, Local 503

Nurse Practitioners of Oregon

Human Service Coalition of Oregon (HSCO)

Oregon Alliance of Children’s Programs

SEIU, Local 49

Oregon Academy of Ophthalmology

American Federation of Teachers – Oregon

Oregon Association of Orthopaedists

Albertina Kerr Centers 

Oregon Food Bank

Mid-Valley Independent Physicians Association

Oregon Health Action Campaign

Coalition for a Healthy Oregon (COHO)

Community Action Partnership of Oregon
Community Health Advocates of Oregon

Oregon Primary Care Association

Oregon School-Based Health Care Network
Regence BlueCross BlueShield of Oregon
Providence Health & Services (Oregon)
Oregon State Council for Retired Citizens

Northwest Health Foundation

OSPIRG

Oregonians for Health Security

Our Oregon

Save Oregon Seniors

Oregon AFL-CIO
Stand for Children

Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of the Northwest

The Urban League of Portland

Tuality Healthcare

United Seniors of Oregon
Upstream Public Health

Who Opposes Measure 50?

BIG TOBACCO

Let’s Put the Future of Oregon’s Kids Ahead 

of Tobacco Industry Profits…

PLEASE VOTE YES ON MEASURE 50

(This information furnished by Courtni Dresser, American Cancer
Society.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
73 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Argument in Favor

Oregon Food Bank

Encourages you to vote yes on Measure 50

Hunger and health are related…
According to the Oregon Food Bank Network’s hunger factors
assessment survey, more than half the households receiving
emergency food boxes avoided or delayed medical care due to
cost. 
Thousands of working Oregonians seek emergency food each
month because they simply don’t earn enough to make ends
meet. For families without medical insurance, health care is
among the very highest of household costs and a major reason
they seek emergency food. 
Every day, the Oregon Food Bank Network provides food to
people who are hungry across our state, many of whom also
lack health coverage. 
Hard-working families should not have to choose
between food and health care…
An emergency food box recipient in Eugene told us, “I feel as
though I have to live with substandard health because I can’t
afford to take care of myself even when I am working. Most of
my debt is related to education and health.”
This year, the Oregon Food Bank Network will distribute more
than 650,000 emergency food boxes to households throughout
the state. Most of these households are families with children. 
During the 2006 hunger factors survey, one parent who came in
for an emergency food box told us, “It’s a crime to work 
full-time and still not be able to afford to feed your children
properly.” We agree.
Passage of Measure 50 means stronger economic 
stability for working families in Oregon…
Measure 50 would provide more than 100,000 children with
health coverage. Many, many Oregon families would no longer
have to make the tough choice between seeking medical care
or putting food on the table. 
Please join Oregon Food Bank in the fight against hunger. 
Vote YES on Measure 50…because no one should be
hungry.
Philip A. Kalberer, Chair
Oregon Food Bank Board of Directors

(This information furnished by Philip A. Kalberer, Chair, Oregon Food
Bank Board of Directors.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Christians Call for a YES Vote on Measure 50
Suffer the children to come unto me and forbid them
not, for of such is the kingdom of God.
- Mark 10:14
Christians, seeking to love one another as God loves us, 
understand that the abundant life God desires for all humanity
includes physical and emotional well-being. This means that
we take seriously the call to promote wellness, and to advocate
for healing and wholeness for all people. It also means 
ensuring adequate and fair access to health care for all people,
according to their needs rather than their wealth or position 
in society. Care for the lives and health of our neighbors is an
extension and expression of God’s love for us and of Jesus
Christ’s healing ministry. 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
74 | State Measures

In light of Jesus’ particular concern for children, we find it a
moral imperative as Christians that we support Measure 50.
Establishment of the Healthy Kids Plan will give hope and
healthcare to underserved and uninsured children in our state.
Revenue generated by this measure will also offer health care
to “the least of these,” whom Jesus directed us to serve: the
uninsured working poor and other Oregonians who are 
medically underserved. In addition, Measure 50 encourages
healthier living both for individuals and for our state as a whole
by aiming to reduce the number of Oregonians who smoke.
We urge our Christian brothers and sisters to respond to Jesus’
call for compassion by casting a YES vote for children’s health.
YES on Measure 50.

(This information furnished by Courtney L. Dillard, The Oregon Center
for Christian Values (OCCV).)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Join Oregon’s healthcare professionals by voting
YES on Measure 50 to provide all Oregon’s children
access to the quality healthcare they deserve.
America has a healthcare crisis, millions of Americans lack
access to healthcare though we spend more money on it than
any other country. While we debate how to solve this crisis,
Measure 50 allows us to take a common sense first step in
Oregon – provide healthcare to uninsured children.
Currently, many families, lacking health insurance for their 
children, are forced to rely on emergency rooms. When families
rely on emergency rooms for their health care, it’s stressful for
families and costly for everyone.
“It is painful to see children come to the Emergency Room 
for treatment that could have been avoided if they had access
to proper routine health care. Children without proper health
care are subject to infections, febrile seizures, higher incidences
of learning disabilities and even higher death rates from
untreated diseases and/or conditions. This is a sad way to show
our value for our country’s greatest resource... our children.”
Karey Whitten RN - Kaiser Sunnyside Emergency Department
A common sense alternative exists to the costly and 
inappropriate use of emergency rooms to care for our children.
Other states have implemented the ideas from Measure 50
resulting in dramatic improvement in the health of children in
those states. The experience of those states shows that as soon
as all Oregon children have healthcare, we will see:
* Significant declines in infant mortality
* Reductions in childhood deaths;
* Reductions in low birth weight children;
* Chronically ill children and children in the poorest health
showing dramatic and sustained improvements in health
outcomes;

* Asthmatic children – victims of the most common childhood

disease – suffering far fewer asthma attacks as well as 
lowered rates of asthma-related emergency department 
visits and hospitalizations.

It’s time to give Oregon’s children access to the quality

healthcare they deserve:

Please vote YES on Measure 50!

(This information furnished by Kathy Geroux RN, President, Oregon
Federation of Nurses and Health Professionals.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Argument in Favor

It’s a call I hope you never have to make.

By Michelle Navarro

I am a front-line worker who helps parents enroll their kids in
the Oregon Health Plan—and on my own time, I decided to
share what I see every day.
One of the hardest things about my job is making the call
regarding families in difficult situations. If I can approve their
application, their happiness will make my day. If I cannot, their
grief is sometimes too much to bear – especially when it’s for a
child.
Even though every family I work with is unique and important,
there is one family I will never forget. I saw them on Dec. 22 -
very near the holidays. The family which consisted of a Mom,
Dad and a wonderful little bright eyed 5 year old boy, Joey, had
moved to Oregon following the fathers’ job. The father was
then laid off and lost the family’s work-based health insurance
coverage. Joey has cerebral palsy. These parents had always
provided for Joey and his illness. They had never planned to
seek services for him, they were proud of providing for his
needs themselves. Unfortunately, even though the Dad was
unemployed, they were not eligible for the Oregon Health Plan.
I had to deny their application two days before Christmas Eve.
We let Joey down.

• Measure 50 means that 100,000 uninsured Oregon

children will have access to health care.

• It dedicates the money to health care and tobacco

prevention – it’s right there in the Constitution.

• And it’s fair, with the revenue coming from one of the

greatest causes of illness in Oregon – the sale of tobacco
products.

I spend my days making calls on difficult, sometimes even 
critical situations. Now, it’s your call.

Please Make the Right Call:

VOTE YES ON 50

(This information furnished by Arthur Towers, SEIU Local 503.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

HEALTHY KIDS LEARN BETTER

Vote Yes on Measure 50

We are teachers from across Oregon and we work in school 
districts large and small, urban and rural. As educators, we
work hard to provide our students with a quality education, but
we are deeply concerned for the growing number of kids we
see in our classrooms who suffer from a lack of health care. 
Each day, we witness the consequences of inadequate access
to medical care. Often, students do not even have the medical
care they need for common childhood illnesses, such as sore
throats, earaches, and asthma. This is unacceptable.
Oregon’s kids deserve to have the tools they need to succeed 
in the classroom and in life. This can’t happen unless every
Oregon student is healthy. 
We know lack of access to health care directly affects students’
readiness to learn and their academic performance. In fact,
being healthy has been linked to many aspects of succeeding in
school, including improved test scores, staying in school, and
fewer missed school days.

We can do better for Oregon’s kids. Oregon’s children are our
state’s greatest resource. By providing health care for children
of working families, we are making an investment in our future. 
Don’t let the big tobacco companies win at the expense of our
children’s health and education. Our kids can’t wait.

Please join us, Oregon Teachers & Educators, in 

Voting YES on Ballot Measure 50

Bob Gray, High School Teacher, David Douglas High, Portland
Carolyn Smith-Evans, Special Education Teacher, Salem-Keizer

School District

Kathy Newman, Teacher, Minter Bridge Elementary, Hillsboro

Lisa Shogren, Teacher, Liberty Elementary, Albany

Michael Craig, Second Grade Teacher, Warm Springs

Elementary, Warm Springs

(This information furnished by Jeston Black, Oregon Education
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Favor

Oregon’s Children and Families Need Health Care
America’s health care system is failing America’s working 
families. The compact by which Americans earn their health
care from their jobs is unraveling, threatening both the 
physical health and the financial well-being of working people
and their children. As a result, 114,000 Oregon children 
currently lack health coverage. Some 90% of children without
health insurance live in families with at least one working 
parent, unfortunately they work in jobs that no longer provide
affordable health benefits.
Measure 50 allows Oregonians to provide healthcare for
100,000 uninsured children.
Health Insurance Coverage Means Healthier Kids
Children without health insurance are less likely to get care
when needed, more likely to seek treatment in emergency
rooms and less likely to survive a critical illness. Even when
they survive, their families are more likely to face bankruptcy.
Their families pay the highest prices for prescription drugs 
and hospital care. And, when their families can’t pay, their costs
are routinely shifted to those with health insurance, increasing
the financial pressures on employers and workers who are
struggling to maintain health insurance benefits and coverage.
Working Families Are Calling for Health Care Reform
Lack of insurance creates a “Sophie’s choice” problem.
Reduction of work-based affordable health insurance means
families are forced to choose between paying for health care 
for their kids or paying their mortgage, between filling their
refrigerators or filling their prescriptions.
The average monthly health insurance premium for a family
now matches the cost of a $120,000 mortgage – and exceeds
the entire monthly earnings of a worker at the federal minimum
wage.
Measure 50 Supports Working Families
By voting YES on Measure 50, Oregonians can ensure the
health of Oregon’s children will improve and working families
will no longer have to choose between providing food and 
shelter or providing healthcare for their kids.
Working Families Should Support Measure 50 

Please Vote YES

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
75 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

(This information furnished by Alan Moore, Oregon Working Families
Party.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Protect Oregon’s Constitution – Vote No on Measure 50
As a constitutional scholar and law school professor, I have
serious concerns about Measure 50. 
A constitution is supposed to define and limit the powers of
government and safeguard the most basic rights of a people in
a democracy. Measure 50, which will go before Oregon’s 
voters this November, serves neither of these objectives. In fact
Measure 50 will limit the rights of voters while making a 
particular tax policy a constitutional mandate. 

• Measure 50 is a deliberate attempt to evade the taxpayer
protections guaranteed in our constitution – protections
that require a 60 percent vote to raise taxes in the state. 

• If Measure 50 passes, for the first time in our state’s history

we will have a single product tax written into Oregon’s
constitution. 

• Any changes to the tax imposed by Measure 50 must be

made by additional constitutional amendments. 

• Measure 50 sets a dangerous precedent for the imposition

of future taxes on other products via constitutional 
amendment. 

Oregon’s constitution was designed to be harder to change
than statutory laws, which is why Measure 50 is proposed as a
constitutional rather than statutory law. But tax policy should
not be made permanent in our constitution. Regardless of how
you feel about smoking and health care, the legislature – not
our constitution – is the proper place for tax policy. 
VOTE NO ON MEASURE 50

(This information furnished by James L. Huffman, Professor of Law and
former Dean, Lewis & Clark Law School.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Laws should solve problems, not create more.
Unfortunately, Measure 50 doesn’t pass this test. 
Read for yourself why Measure 50 deserves your “NO”
vote in November. 
www.StopMeasure50.com
NO on Measure 50 – Our Constitution Shouldn’t be a
Tool for Special Interests
Oregon’s Constitution is a sacred document that sets forth the
tenets that form the basis of our legal system and laws. It was
never intended to become a “catch all” to be used by special
interests to promote their own political agendas. 
Unfortunately, Measure 50 would change all that by amending
our constitution to tax a specific product – the first time this
would ever have been done in Oregon’s nearly 150 year history. 
Measure 50 Evades Critical Taxpayer Protections
Oregon’s Constitution protects taxpayers by requiring a 
supermajority legislative vote to enact new taxes. When the
state legislature failed to come up with the necessary votes 
to pass a tax increase, Measure 50’s proponents tried to find a
way around these protections – by changing the Constitution
itself! Any changes or modifications to the Measure 50 tax
increases will require another constitutional amendment. 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
76 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Measure 50 – A Pandora’s Box and a Dangerous
Precedent
While Measure 50 would raise the tax on a pack of cigarettes by
more than 70 percent, the real question for Oregonians is
“what’s next?” If the special interests succeed here, what new
tax will they try to put in the Constitution at the next election?
Will they decide to tax groceries? Will they decide to tax 
soft drinks or fast food? There’s only one way to make sure 
we never face more of these special interest Constitutional 
amendment tax measures – by giving Measure 50 an 
overwhelming “NO” vote this November.
VOTE NO ON MEASURE 50

For more information, please log on to

www.StopMeasure50.com

(This information furnished by Lisa Scott Gilliam, Stop the Measure 50
Tax Hike Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

As an accountant, I think Measure 50 

looks like a bankrupt plan

For over 25 years of public practice, I have shared my expertise
with clients to help ensure long term financial stability for them
and their families.
After looking at the numbers in the Legislative Fiscal Office
analysis, it’s clear that Measure 50 will result in a large budget
deficit for the Healthy Kids health care program in Oregon.
The Legislative Fiscal Office estimates that the new revenues
from the tobacco tax increase won’t meet program costs in the
future. As we’ve seen in Oregon and around the country, when
tobacco taxes increase, some people will stop smoking. This is
good UNLESS you’re trying to sustain a growing program with
these shrinking revenues.
It’s simple to understand that Measure 50’s program costs will
continue to rise, while tax revenues will continue to fall. If one
of my clients had a job that paid less every year, while their
expenses increased at the same time, they would quickly go
bankrupt.
It’s the same with Measure 50.
In a client’s case, the wage earner would either need a new job,
a second job or a serious cut in their expenses to escape 
financial disaster. In the Legislature’s case, it would either need
to levy a new tax, increase the tax, or severely cut funding to 
its new Healthy Kids program to live within its means.
Measure 50 doesn’t add up to a sound financial plan for
Oregon. In the next few years, when the program costs outpace
the tax revenue, we can expect another budget mess for
Oregon.
Measure 50 is poor fiscal policy. Please join me in voting
against this constitutional amendment and ask your legislators
to create a financially responsible solution for health care in
Oregon.

(This information furnished by Diane E. Fritz.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
77 | State Measures

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 50 ISN’T ABOUT HEALTHY KIDS …

Over 70% OF THE NEW FUNDS WILL NOT GO TOWARD

CHILDREN’S HEALTH INSURANCE

Don’t let the name “Healthy Kids” fool you. Take a closer look,
and you’ll find that most of the new tax money raised in
Measure 50 isn’t even expended on the Healthy Kids program.
According to the Legislative Fiscal Office, over 70% of the funds
collected from the proposed tobacco tax increase will not be
expended for the Healthy Kids Program in this budget cycle. 
What’s more, Measure 50 contains a “blank check” for the 
legislature of $65 million that isn’t dedicated to any specific
health care purpose at all. That’s right…over 1/3 of the new tax
money raised by Measure 50 is nothing more than a blank
check.
The legislature, in conjunction with the health insurance 
companies, HMO’s and big hospital chains are asking you to
take the unprecedented step of sticking a tobacco tax in the
Oregon Constitution. It would be the first time in history that
our constitution was amended to create a tax for a single 
product. They say that the main purpose of Measure 50 is to
create the Healthy Kids program.
But the numbers tell a different story.
• Over 70% of the revenue raised by Measure 50 isn’t
expended for the Healthy Kids Program.
• $65 million of the revenue raised by Measure 50 is a blank
check that isn’t dedicated to any particular health care program
at all.
Visit www.reject50.com and take a closer look.
Vote NO on Ballot Measure 50

(This information furnished by James L. Wilson, Oregonians Against the
Blank Check.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

YOUR VOTE ON MEASURE 50 MAY BE ONE OF THE
MOST IMPORTANT CHOICES YOU EVER MAKE!
Measure 50 Amends Oregon’s Constitution to Tax
Specific Products
Our Constitution is a sacred document. It should only be
amended for very important and fundamental reasons. Never
before has Oregon’s Constitution been amended to tax 
specific products and now is not the time to break that tradition.
Voting NO on Measure 50 protects our Constitution.
Measure 50 Could Mean Higher Taxes for Oregonians
The massive government entitlement programs that would be
funded by Measure 50 are almost certain to require more and
more funds. However, most experts agree that the tobacco
taxes used to fund these programs are almost certain to decline
over time. If more money is needed, the politicians could pass
higher income taxes or even initiate a sales tax to make up the
deficit. 
Measure 50 is Bad Fiscal Policy
According to the Legislative Revenue Office, Measure 50 
leaves $68 million for the legislature to spend on programs
other than children’s health care. State bureaucrats have even
announced plans to pay a $25 bounty or “finders fee” for 

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

signing up new participants for the new government health
program funded by Measure 50. A state authorized bounty 
program is almost certain to be abused and is not what Oregon
taxpayers need.
PLEASE READ FOR YOURSELF WHY MEASURE 50
DESERVES YOUR ‘NO’ VOTE THIS NOVEMBER.
For more information, please log on to

www.StopMeasure50.com

(This information furnished by Lisa Scott Gilliam, Stop the Measure 50
Tax Hike Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

A Former Oregon Health Plan Financing Manager Says

Measure 50 Will Short-change Oregon’s Neediest
As a former manager for health financing operations at the
Oregon Health Plan, I know the importance of having a stable
revenue source for our state-run health insurance plans.
As much as I would love to see expanded access to health care
for Oregon’s needy, it is not prudent to tie those essential 
programs to a declining revenue source like a tobacco tax. As
we’ve all seen in the past, many worthy programs that the 
legislature creates are later cut when the state’s wallet grows
thin. 
Like the current tobacco tax, the revenues that Measure 50
seeks to raise will likely fall hundreds of millions of dollars short
of the new program costs. 
Existing health insurance programs, like the State Children’s
Health Insurance Program and the Oregon Health Plan, are 
partially funded by the current cigarette tax. Those programs
are consistently under-funded and neglected. We should 
take care of the programs we already have instead of creating 
a massive new program that will simply be cut when tobacco
tax revenues begin drying up. 
Measure 50 is simply a pretty house of cards that we’ll all 
watch crumble in the years to come when the costs outrun the
revenues. Unfortunately, when the house folds, it will rob
health care coverage from the Oregonians who need it most. 
Please join me in voting against Measure 50. Oregon can do
better for its neediest citizens. Measure 50 is simply a recipe for
future program cuts. 
Marilee Teller
Keizer

(This information furnished by Marilee Teller.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 50 JUST DOESN’T ADD UP

The Measure 50 tobacco taxes, which the politicians put on the
ballot as a constitutional amendment when they failed to pass
them in the legislature, are another example of our elected 
officials ignoring simple economics. Measure 50 creates a new
program with a growing appetite for money, but plans to pay
for it with a revenue stream that will get smaller each year. 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
78 | State Measures

Measure 50’s proponents claim that by increasing cigarette
taxes by more than 70 percent, they will decrease smoking
among Oregonians and generate enough money to fund a new
state-run health care program. 
But tobacco taxes have been shown to be a declining revenue
source – meaning that they decrease over time. In addition,
when Oregon last raised its cigarette taxes in 2002 it took in 
24 percent LESS revenue than projected. And in one dramatic
case, when New Jersey raised its cigarette tax in 2006 by 
17.5 cents per pack, revenue from the tax actually DROPPED by
$23 million the following year. 
Oregon already sends 73 percent of its tobacco tax revenue to
the Oregon Health Plan, and Measure 50 makes the state’s
health care system even more dependent on tobacco taxes. If
there is a shortfall of revenue for this expensive new program,
where will the state get additional funds?
That’s a good question. 
The only good answer is a NO vote on Measure 50 this
November. 

For more information, please visit:

www.StopMeasure50.com

(This information furnished by John A. Charles, Jr., President and CEO,
Cascade Policy Institute.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

RETAILERS AND SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS SAY 
NO TO MEASURE 50
As president of the Northwest Grocery Association, an 
organization representing more than 80 percent of Oregon’s
retail grocers, I urge voters to read Measure 50 for yourselves
and then join me in voting NO this November.
Grocers, retailers and small businesses know full well how hard
it is for consumers to make ends meet. We also know that taxes
take a big bite out of every dollar earned and spent in the state.
Measure 50 is all about new taxes on Oregon consumers.
If Measure 50 passes, one class of consumers in Oregon will
face a more than 70 percent tax increase. It would be the first
time that our Constitution was used to impose taxes on specific
products – setting a precedent that could be very damaging for
all Oregonians down the road. This time it is taxes on tobacco,
but next time the politicians want more taxes, it could be a tax
on soft drinks or snack foods.
Measure 50 would raise millions of dollars in new taxes to 
support a new and expanded health care bureaucracy – this
doesn’t make any sense when there are 60,000 eligible kids who
are NOT YET ENROLLED in the existing Oregon Health Plan,
despite record state revenues that could be tapped for this 
purpose.
Please join grocers, retailers and small business owners
throughout Oregon and VOTE NO ON MEASURE 50. Our
Constitution is not the place for a special interest tax.
For more information, please log on to

www.StopMeasure50.com

(This information furnished by Joe Gilliam, Northwest Grocery
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Argument in Opposition

What would you do with a $65 million BLANK CHECK?
That’s the issue that has Oregon legislators and HMO lobbyists
licking their chops. If Measure 50 passes, state legislators 
will have a lot more of your money to spend on whatever health
care expenses they want – all under the guise of “Healthy
Kids.”
Don’t let the name “Healthy Kids” fool you. It’s a wolf in sheep’s
clothing. 

• Over 70% of the funds collected from the proposed

cigarette tax will not be expended for the Healthy
Kids Program, which proponents advertise as the
purpose for Measure 50.

• What’s worse is that $65 million, over 1/3rd of all

revenues from the tobacco tax increase, ISN’T 
DEDICATED to any specific health care expenditure
under Measure 50 and could even be used for higher
payments to hospitals or HMOs. 

• Massive tax increase on a small minority of working

class Oregonians to pay for an expensive new
health program that should be the obligation of all
Oregonians. 

One Blank Check to the Legislature for $65 million + 
Over 70% of New Money NOT Spent on Children’s Health

Insurance = 

A Bad Deal for Oregon Taxpayers

VOTE NO ON MEASURE 50 AND
REJECT THE BLANK CHECKS.

www.reject50.com

(This information furnished by James L. Wilson, Oregonians Against the
Blank Check.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Please Don’t Sacrifice Oregon Business for a Tax

Increase That Won’t Be Spent on Children’s Health Care!
As a grocery store owner in Portland, I work very long hours to
run a responsible community business. I would never run my
store the way the legislature plans to run the so-called “Healthy
Kids Program.” They make it sound like every cent from the
tobacco tax increase will go to helping children get health care.
No one can disagree that all Oregon children deserve to see
doctors and get the help they need. 
I was dismayed to find out that over 70% of all the
money raised from this tobacco tax will not be
expended on state-run children’s health insurance 
programs. 
Why would the legislature advertise this money as going to the
children when most of it will not pay for the children? It’s 
disappointing to say the least. I would never tell my customers
that I’m selling them one thing, when it’s really another. I 
consider that dishonorable.
If Measure 50 passes, I will lose business. Just like after the last
tobacco tax increase, my customers that choose to smoke will
find ways to buy lower-priced cigarettes. And those customers
from Washington that bought cigarettes in my store will go
away because what’s the use of buying in Oregon when the
price is the same in Washington? 

Times are tough enough for small business owners in Oregon.
The legislature is selling voters one thing, and telling them it’s
another. 
Please tell your family and neighbors to vote against this 
dishonest ballot measure. 
Sincerely,
Suki Eum
Glisan Market

(This information furnished by Suki Eum, Glisan Market.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Ballot Measure 50

It’s Unfair.

It’s Unaccountable.
It’s Unsustainable.

It Abuses the Oregon Constitution.

Measure 50 is a deeply flawed measure that attempts to 
establish an expensive new children’s health care program by
taxing a small minority of Oregonians – smokers.
It’s unfair. Only 18% of Oregonians are smokers. Most 
smokers are working class people with modest incomes.
Measure 50 would force this minority to shoulder the entire
burden of paying for the health insurance of others.
It’s unaccountable. Most of the money raised by Measure 50
is not even expended on children’s health care! In fact, over
70% of the money is spent on programs other than children’s
health care. This includes a whopping $65 million “blank
check” that isn’t dedicated to any specific health care item at all.
Where is the accountability for all this new tax money?
It’s unsustainable. It’s a fact – the new health care program
will grow more expensive every year. At the same time, the new
cigarette tax will bring in less and less money every year. In
just a few short years, the money from this new tax will fall far
short of being able to pay for this program. Who will the 
legislature tax next to make up for this inevitable shortfall?
It abuses the Oregon Constitution. Measure 50 sticks a 
cigarette tax exactly where it doesn’t belong – in the Oregon
Constitution. In fact, this would be the first time that the 
Oregon Constitution was ever used to create a tax for a single
product. If the legislature succeeds in putting this tax into the
constitution, you can be sure that they will try and lock more
taxes in the Constitution later.

For more information, go to Freedomworks.org

(This information furnished by Russ Walker, Freedomworks.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

You Can’t Call It “Healthy Kids” When 

Less Than 30 Percent of the New Tax Funds 

Children’s Health Insurance Programs

The Oregon Legislature wants you to think that you’re voting
on something as good as motherhood and apple pie. 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
79 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Unfortunately, it’s just another way the folks in Salem are trying
to hoodwink Oregonians into passing a massive tax increase 
by giving it a friendly name. 
If you’re like me, you wince every time you look at your 
paycheck and see hundreds and sometimes thousands of 
dollars deducted for different state and federal expenditures.
The government is supposed to be accountable for every 
penny you give to them. 
Sadly, Measure 50 includes a big, $65 million blank check for
the legislature to spend on any health care expenditure it
wants. That could be higher funding for the state health care
bureaucracy and that could also be bigger per-patient bills for
health insurance companies. The truth is, we don’t have any
control over how or where that money is to be spent. 

No Accountability for Your Hard-Earned Tax Dollars.

Less Than 30 Percent of Funds for Healthy Kids.

One Big Blank Check.

No on Measure 50.

(This information furnished by Tom Larimer.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

STOP BALLOT MEASURE 50

Please Vote “No” on Measure 50
Protect and Preserve the Oregon Constitution

• This is the first time our constitution will be amended to

create a tax on a single product.

• A cigarette tax doesn’t belong in the constitution.
• We shouldn’t change the constitution to pass a new tax.

www.reject50.com

(This information furnished by James L. Wilson, Oregonians Against the
Blank Check.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

A CIGARETTE TAX IN OUR STATE CONSTITUTION?

IT’S A DANGEROUS PRECEDENT

Ballot Measure 50: The first time our CONSTITUTION will be

amended to create a tax on a single product.

A cigarette tax doesn’t belong in the constitution. That’s just not
right. We shouldn’t change the constitution just to pass a new
tax. 

• Measure 50 sounds good at first, but the legislators that

referred this decision to the voters won’t tell you that it’s a
constitutional amendment to permanently affix a single-
product tax to the Oregon Constitution. 

• If you have read our constitution, you know it’s a document

that outlines the most basic rights guaranteed to every
Oregonian. Those rights include freedom of speech, free
elections, and no taxation without representation. A
tobacco tax increase does not belong among those rights. 

• If we ever wanted to change the tax or remove it from the
constitution, it would require another vote of the people.

• Measure 50 will forever change the document that 

determines each Oregonians’ inalienable rights. 

• If we can put a cigarette tax in the Oregon Constitution,

couldn’t we also shove taxes on certain foods, beverages
or activities into the Oregon Constitution? 

FIRST-TIME CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. 

Say NO to this 

Vote NO on Measure 50.

(This information furnished by Andrea Reimer.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Legislature Violates Constitutional Protections 

to Put Measure 50 on the Ballot

As a state legislator, I take my oath of office very seriously. My
oath of office simply says that I will support the Oregon
Constitution to the best of my ability. 
I voted against Measure 50 when it was in the legislature
because unfortunately, the legislature found loopholes that
would allow it to violate some very specific constitutional 
protections for Oregon taxpayers. I don’t believe that this is an
honest way to conduct legislative business, and voters should
reject it.
The Oregon Constitution is very specific in how the legislature
can raise taxes. First, every proposed tax increase must origi-
nate in the House of Representatives. Second, every proposed
tax increase must be passed by a 3/5th “supermajority” in both
the House and Senate. The constitution gives no other options
for increasing taxes.
But instead of adhering to constitutional protections, the 
legislature chose to bypass them. 
Measure 50 originated in the Senate, not in the House as the
Constitution prescribes. But even worse, the legislature found 
a “loophole” that would allow it to pass a tax without getting
the necessary 3/5th “supermajority” of votes. How did they do
this? By trying to stick this tax in the Constitution itself. 
By attempting to increase a tax by amending the Oregon
Constitution, the legislature deliberately side-stepped
some of Oregon’s most important constitutional 
safeguards.
I am concerned that if Measure 50 passes, we will begin to see
other tax increase proposals locked into our Oregon
Constitution because it will become the path of least resistance
for the legislature to raise taxes.
Like most Oregonians, I support programs and opportunities 
to expand health insurance for Oregon children as 
Ballot Measure 50 purports to do, but not at the expense of 
sacrificing our state constitution. 
State Representative Bill Garrard
Klamath Falls, OR

(This information furnished by William Garrard, Oregon State
Representative, House District 56.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
80 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Argument in Opposition

Don’t Amend Our Constitution with a First-Ever

Single Product Tax!

As a member of the Oregon City community, I greatly respect
and value the constitution. I was taught that the constitution
contains the most basic rights that we are guaranteed as
Oregonians like life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
Measure 50 worries me because it would be the first time our
constitution was amended to create a tax on a single product. I
don’t think we should fundamentally change our constitution
for a cigarette tax. 
A tobacco tax increase does not belong in our constitution. 
As a small grocery store owner, I sell many products to my 
customers, including tobacco. It’s not fair that my customers
who choose to smoke should bare the burden of paying for the
health care of other people’s children. That’s everyone’s
responsibility. 
I see my health insurance bills going up every year, far 
outpacing the rate of growth in my store. Measure 50 would
take money from some of my customers and throw it at the
same old health care system, which badly needs reforming. 
However, if the legislature or congress reforms the health care
system, the tobacco tax couldn’t be changed without another
vote of the people. 

Measure 50 doesn’t make sense.

It will be stuck into our constitution.

It will tax a few of my customers to pay for 

health care for other people’s children when it’s 

everyone’s responsibility.

It will throw money at a broken health care system.

It can’t be changed without another vote of the people.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE 50.

(This information furnished by Steve Choi, Get and Go Grocery.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

The Legislature Plays “Rope-A-Dope” 

with

Oregonians and the Oregon Constitution

through

Measure 50

Take a look at how the legislature got around taxpayer 
protections in the Oregon Constitution during the 2007
Legislative Session: 

1. Oregon’s Constitution requires the legislature to have a 

60 percent supermajority in order to pass a new tax or tax
increase. 

2. The legislature could not get enough votes to pass the 

cigarette tax on its own so it found a loophole.

3. The legislature then referred the cigarette tax to voters 

as a constitutional amendment to get around the 
supermajority requirement, because a constitutional
amendment only requires a simple majority vote in both
chambers. 

***

The legislature is trying to sneak in a new tax through 
a constitutional amendment, because it couldn’t get

enough votes to pass the cigarette tax on its own.

The legislature didn’t do its job, and now it’s asking you

to sacrifice Oregon’s Constitution.

Reject the legislature’s attempts to deliberately evade

the protections built into the Oregon Constitution.

Oregonians shouldn’t change the constitution 

to pass a new tax.

***

VOTE NO on Measure 50. 

(This information furnished by Wayne Brady.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY PAC

SAYS VOTE “NO” ON MEASURE 50

This year, the Oregon legislature had $2.5 billion more of your
money than it had during the last legislative session – a record
budget with an almost 20% increase. If they really wanted a
“Healthy Kids” program, they could have funded it without
raising any more tax money.
But what did the legislature do? They spent every dollar they
had on other things. After the money was gone, they wanted
even more to pay for a program called “Healthy Kids.” So now
they’re asking you to raise taxes, mostly from working-class
people, by voting for Measure 50 - and sticking a cigarette tax in
our constitution at the same time. 
That’s not all. This very same legislature is using Measure 50 to
give itself a “blank check.” That’s right, the legislature is giving
itself a $65 million blank check in Measure 50. Who knows how
they’ll spend it? 
Measure 50 raises taxes on a small minority of working-class
Oregonians. That’s unfair, uncompassionate, and forces our
children to rely upon others choosing to smoke. That is bad 
policy, and is unsustainable over time.
If the legislature managed our tax money a little more wisely, 
it could have addressed the issue of health care for children
without raising taxes. Instead, they’re asking you for a blank
check while enshrining a cigarette tax into the Oregon
Constitution. Naturally, everyone wants kids to have the care
they need. But Measure 50 is not the answer.

Don’t reward legislative irresponsibility.
Make them come up with a better plan.

Vote NO on Measure 50.

Check us out: www.farpac.org

(This information furnished by Richard P. Burke, Exec. Dir., Freedom and
Responsibility PAC (FARPAC).)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
81 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

Argument in Opposition

Dear Oregonians,

At a point in history when we have become so keenly aware

of the evils of discrimination, it is ironic to me that we are 
being asked to enshrine a discriminatory tax in the Oregon
Constitution. Tobacco use is dangerous and unadvisable. Yet
this fact does not make it acceptable for us to discriminate
against tobacco users as Measure 50 asks us to do.

It really is quite simple. Proponents of Measure 50 are asking
the majority who do not use or sell tobacco to place provisions
in the Oregon Constitution that will require a minority of
Oregonians who smoke to provide health care to all of Oregon’s
uninsured children. Oregon smokers will pay this tax even if
most children using the Healthy Kids program have parents
with more money that the smoker whose tax dollars are 
funding the program. Oregon smokers will pay this tax 
regardless of whether they have insurance of their own.

Meanwhile, no matter how much money nonsmokers make,
no matter how much nonsmokers benefit from the Healthy Kids
program, and no matter how much less the tax burden would
be if all Oregonians contributed – nonsmokers will not 
contribute one cent toward providing health insurance for
Oregon’s uninsured children. That’s discrimination – and 
discrimination does not belong in the Oregon Constitution.

Please vote No on Ballot Measure 50.
Lila Leathers
Leathers Enterprises, Inc.

(This information furnished by Lila C. Leathers, Leathers Enterprises,
Inc.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 50 ISN’T ABOUT HEALTHY KIDS …

Over 70% OF THE NEW FUNDS WILL NOT GO TOWARD

CHILDREN’S HEALTH INSURANCE

It’s unfair for insurance companies, HMOs and big hospital
chains to say tax revenues raised by Measure 50 will go to the
children, because it’s not true. 
Over 70% of the funds collected from the proposed tobacco tax
increase will not be expended for the Healthy Kids Program in
this budget cycle. 
That’s right. Nearly 3/4 of the revenue raised by Constitutional
Amendment 50 won’t go to the Healthy Kids Program.

TAKE A CLOSER LOOK. VOTE NO ON MEASURE 50.

www.reject50.com

(This information furnished by James L. Wilson, Oregonians Against the
Blank Check.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

So … Where is the Money from Measure 50 

Really Going?

Measure 50 is for Healthy Kids. Sounds good, doesn’t it? 

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
82 | State Measures

What doesn’t sound good is that most Oregonians who pay
taxes (yes, that’s you) probably don’t know where the money
raised from Measure 50 will actually go. 
You think it’s for children’s health insurance? Think again. 
The new, constitutional tax that Measure 50 sets up will:

• Take $65 million of your tax dollars and put it into a slush
fund for the legislature to spend on whatever health care
expenses it wants—including expanding the government
health bureaucracy.

• Keep over 70% of the money from the new tax revenues

for programs other than the Healthy Kids Program. 
That’s right. Almost 3/4 of the money you think is going to
the kids actually is not. 

• Hand health insurance companies no-bid contracts from

the state.

• Shove a cigarette tax into our constitution.
• Give advertising firms up to $20 million to buy TV and
radio advertising for smoking cessation issues. (That’s 
$20 million people can’t spend on their own health 
insurance.) 

And because health care costs rise every day, the programs in
Measure 50 will eventually outpace the declining revenue from
a cigarette tax as people stop smoking. 
Who picks up the tab for these huge programs when the 
cigarette money dries up?
The rest of us. 

VOTE NO ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL TAX

For more information, go to oregonwatchdog.com

(This information furnished by Jason Williams, Taxpayer Association of
Oregon PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Over 70% of the “Healthy Kids” Money
Won’t Go to Children’s Health Insurance.

When the legislature dodged Oregon’s constitutional super-
majority requirement by referring Measure 50 to voters as an
unprecedented constitutional amendment on a single
product, they called Measure 50 the “Healthy Kids Plan.”
They are misleading you. During the next few years, according
to the analysis of Oregon’s budget-crunching Legislative 
Fiscal Office, less than 30% of all the money raised from the
proposed tobacco tax will be spent on children’s health
insurance.
Calling a program like this “Healthy Kids” is deceiving and
unfortunate when most of the money won’t even go toward
much-needed health care coverage for kids. Millions will 
simply be used to backfill programs that are already 
experiencing budget shortfalls under the current tobacco tax.
Another piece of this budget puzzle is the huge chunk of
“unallocated” money from the proposed tobacco tax
increase that the legislature has earmarked as a set-aside for
any health care program it wants. That set-aside is estimated 
by the Legislative Fiscal Office to be $65 million. Most voters
probably do not realize that “Healthy Kids” is really
funding a disgraceful blank check for the legislature.
If the legislature wants more tax dollars from Oregonians, it
should be honest about telling us where all the money will go. 

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

If it’s not for children’s health care, they should say so. 
Looking just a few short years down the road, with tobacco tax
revenues declining, you can bet the legislature will be looking
to tax the rest of Oregon to fund the budget shortfalls.
That could mean anything from increased income taxes to a
sales tax! 

Reject this Deceiving Constitutional Tax.

The Legislature Will Tax the Rest of Us Later

to Backfill the Deficits.
Vote NO on Measure 50.

Check us out: www.lporegon.org

(This information furnished by Richard P. Burke, Executive Director,
Libertarian Party of Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Measure 50 Is Bad News for Oregon Business and the
State’s Budget!!!
Here are three good reasons to oppose Measure 50, the
constitutional tobacco tax increase:

1. Sharply Declining Tobacco Tax Revenues
Tobacco tax revenues will decline every year, while the 
programs required by Measure 50 are projected to nearly
triple in a few short years. This will create a massive budget
shortfall that will need to be funded one way or another. 
2. Harmful Impact on Oregon Retailers and Employees
It’s estimated if Measure 50 passes, Oregon retailers, will see
sales drop 18% for the 84.5-cent increase. In the years after
the last tobacco tax increase, sales dropped 15% for a 60-cent
increase. That means nearly 400 Oregonians could lose their
jobs due to decreased sales. 
3. Out-of-State and Internet Retailers will Reap Profits

while Oregon Businesses Suffer

Because three out of four of our surrounding states would
have significantly lower cigarette taxes, Oregonians near
borders could save themselves hundreds of dollars annually
simply by buying cigarettes in another state. For example, 
an Oregonian could save $14.55 per carton of cigarettes by
purchasing in Idaho, rather than paying the higher tax in
Oregon. Buying cigarettes online is another popular way
some smokers could circumvent the price increase. 

It doesn’t make sense to unnecessarily disadvantage
Oregon retailers by passing a constitutionally mandated
tobacco tax increase that will not meet budget 
expectations in the years to come. 

REJECT MEASURE 50. 

IT’S A DECLINING REVENUE SOURCE. 

IT WILL HARM OREGON’S SMALL GROCERS 

AND THEIR EMPLOYEES.

(This information furnished by Sung Cho, Korean American Grocers
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Millions for TV and Radio Ads? A Blank Check Worth
$65 million?
That Doesn’t Sound Like Children’s Health Insurance.
The insurance companies, HMOs and big hospital chains
behind Measure 50 want you to think all the new tax money will
go for the kids. Like most ballot measures, the devil’s in the
details of Measure 50.
Ballot Measure 50 sounds good, but did you know …

• Over 70% of the funds collected from the proposed

cigarette tax will not be expended for the Healthy
Kids Program, which is supposed to be the main
purpose of the initiative. 

• $65 million, or over 1/3rd of all revenues from the

proposed tobacco tax increase, isn’t dedicated 
for a specific purpose at all and could be used by
the legislature for any health care expense it wants
in this budget cycle. It’s a $65 million blank check!

• $20 million of the new tobacco tax dollars could 

be used to purchase radio and television ads to 
convince people to stop smoking.

We all want to put kids first, but Measure 50 is riddled with
earmarks for special interests like insurance companies,
HMOs, big hospital chains … and even advertising firms!

(This information furnished by James L. Wilson, Oregonians Against the
Blank Check.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Americans for Prosperity – Oregon 
Urges a “NO” Vote on Measure 50

• Measure 50 will give Oregon the third highest tax 

in the nation. Do we want our state to have 

one of the highest taxes in the country?

• Measure 50 imposes an unfair tax on the behavior of a small

minority of your friends and neighbors, and asks them to 

pay for health care for someone else’s children. 

What could be more unfair?

• Measure 50 is another in a string of wild promises from the

Legislature that raising taxes will solve all our problems.

• The Legislature just finished spending billions of taxpayer

dollars – the most in State history – increasing taxes and

increasing the budget by 20 percent, but now wants 

another tax increase for children’s health care?

• Most of the money from this tax increase does not even

pay for what the Legislature claims. Instead the money 

goes into the General Fund to potentially 

be spent on pork projects.

• Measure 50 relies on the contradictory ideas that we 

need to reduce smoking, while at the same time rely 

on smoking to pay the government’s bills.

• Cigarette taxes are notoriously unreliable. The amount of

money raised is never as much as promised.

• Measure 50 represents the fifth time the State has raised

cigarette taxes in the past 10 years. Cigarette tax 
revenue – despite all these rate increases – has 

not even kept up with inflation.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
83 | State Measures

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

• Our state has the 7th worst unemployment in the country.

Measure 50 will add another burden to the backs of 

low-income Oregonians and those who are 

suffering the loss of their job.

• Providing health care for children is the responsibility of

their parents, not the taxpayers and certainly not a 
small minority of primarily low-income taxpayers.

Please join us in voting NO on Measure 50.

Americans for Prosperity - Oregon
www.americansforprosperity.org

Oregon_AFP@yahoo.com

(This information furnished by Jeff Kropf and Matt Evans, Americans for
Prosperity - Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Oregon Small Business Coalition 
Urges “NO” Vote on Measure 50

Ballot Measure 50 is well intended, but the negative 
consequences of the measure are so glaring that we believe
voters should say NO. 
The most obvious problem with the measure is that it seeks to
put a specific tax rate on a specific product in the Oregon
Constitution. This is clearly not the appropriate place for any
tax, let alone a tax on cigarettes. It would be the only such tax in
the Oregon Constitution and most likely the only such tax in
any state Constitution across the country.
We are very concerned about funding this new entitlement 
program with cigarette tax dollars. These new tax dollars 
are projected to decline every year and will fail to sustain the
new Healthy Kids program in just a few short years. Yet the 
cigarette tax rate will be locked into the Constitution. All
Oregon businesses and individual taxpayers will clearly face
the prospect of increased taxes in the future to sustain this
Program when the funding shortfalls occur in the coming years.
Finally, we are concerned that the “Healthy Kids” proposal
really isn’t about healthy kids at all. If Ballot Measure 50 were
really about extending health coverage to over 100,000 Oregon
children, we would expect to see more than just a mere 
29 percent of the money dedicated to children’s health care. 
But that’s the reality of this measure – over 70 percent is 
allocated to something other than children’s health care. 
We’d like to see children’s health insurance expanded in a
responsible and sustainable way. Unfortunately, Constitutional
Amendment 50 is neither responsible nor sustainable. Please
vote no.

(This information furnished by Darrell Fuller, President, Oregon Small
Business Coalition.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

Keep tax policy where it belongs – in our state laws –

and NOT in our constitution.

As the President of a business that’s been a Portland landmark
for over 100 years, I’m very concerned with the dangerous
precedents set by Measure 50. This measure attempts to raise a
specific product tax (tobacco) in the worst way possible – by
putting it in the Oregon Constitution.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
84 | State Measures

The Oregon Constitution clearly lays out how tax increases
need to be addressed by the legislature. First, each tax increase
proposal must originate in the House of Representatives.
Second, each tax increase proposal must pass with a 3/5th
majority in both the House and Senate. The constitution 
protects taxpayers and does not give the legislature any other
option for raising taxes.
But instead of abiding by constitutional guidelines, the 
legislature found a “loophole” that would allow itself to 
circumvent constitutional protections by putting a cigarette tax
increase in the constitution itself.
Now that this “loophole” has been exploited for the purpose 
of putting Measure 50 on the ballot, we can be certain that 
other tax increases that cannot be passed through the normal
legislative process will re-surface as constitutional 
amendments.
If Measure 50 passes, it is conceivable that the Oregon
Constitution may become littered with various tax increases
that could not be changed or repealed unless voted by the 
people.
I am also concerned that the legislature is only fooling itself if it
believes these new tobacco taxes will sustain a new, expensive
health care program. Our experience shows that as tobacco
taxes increase, our customers look to buy their tobacco 
products over the internet or in lower-tax states. This not only
harms Oregon retailers, but it seriously calls into question
whether the legislature can fund an expensive program with a
declining revenue source. Quite simply, they can’t. More taxes
will soon be needed. 
Please vote NO on Measure 50 

(This information furnished by Tom Moran, Rich’s Cigar Store.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

The Oregon Neighborhood Store Association represents
small neighborhood stores across the State of Oregon. On
behalf of our members, we ask you to vote No on Measure 50
for these reasons:

• Tobacco Taxes Do Not Belong In Oregon’s

Constitution

• The Oregon Constitution is intended to provide a 
general framework for government. Fundamental
principles like the right to free speech and freedom
from unreasonable search and seizure belong in the
Constitution. Tobacco taxes do not.

• Oregon Already Has a $2.5 Billion Surplus: Why a

new tax?

•

Improved economic conditions provided legislators
with a $2.5 billion surplus for the 2007-09 budget
cycle. The legislature could easily have used this 
surplus to provide health insurance for children.
Instead, legislators decided to spend the entire 
$2.5 billion of this new revenue on other programs 
and ask voters to impose a new tax on a disfavored
minority.

• Less than 30% of New Tobacco Tax Will Go To

Healthy Kids Program

• Certain interests want you to believe all the money

generated from the tobacco tax will be used to 
support the Healthy Kids Program. However, less than
30% of the new tax is actually dedicated to the
Healthy Kids Program. [State of Oregon Legislative
Fiscal Office analysis of Senate Bill 3, page 3]

continued  

Measure 50 Arguments

• Tobacco Tax Is Unsustainable

• Tobacco taxes are not a sustainable source of 

funding for the Healthy Kids Program. Health care
costs will increase over time, while revenues 
from tobacco taxes will decrease over time. It does
not make sense to use a declining revenue source 
to pay for a program with increasing costs.

• All Oregonians Should Contribute – Not Just

Smokers

• Fewer than 1 in 5 Oregonians smoke. If we want to
provide health care to all Oregon children, then all
Oregonians should help fund this program on a 
proportional basis. It is not fair to make smokers bear
the entire cost of a program we all value.

(This information furnished by Terrence W. McEvilly, Oregon
Neighborhood Store Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

The Oregon Legislature began the 2007 legislative session
with a $2.5 Billion ($2,500,000,000.00) surplus. It ended the 
session by referring to voters a Constitutional Amendment that
will cost Oregonians $194.5 Million ($194,500,000.00) during
the next two years alone.

Proponents of this new tax say the money will be used to
fund the Oregon Healthy Kids Program. The fact is that less
than 30% of the money from this new $194,500,000.00 tax 
will be used to support the Healthy Kids Program. The state’s
own analysis shows that a majority of the revenue from the
new tax – over 70% - can be used on other programs. [State 
of Oregon Legislative Fiscal Office analysis of Senate Bill 3, 
page 3.] 

With high gas prices, a mortgage meltdown, and $2.5 Billion

of surplus revenue, it hardly seems like the time for a tax
increase of any sort – especially a tax that targets a class of
Oregonians with average incomes of $34,000 per year.
However, if providing health insurance for uninsured children 
is something Oregonians are committed to doing, we need 
to ensure that all Oregonians contribute to this program on an
equitable basis. We should not make the 1 in 5 Oregonians 
who smoke pay the bill for a program that benefits all
Oregonians.

We expect leadership from our elected representatives, and

they should not hesitate to ask Oregonians for more money
when more money is truly needed. Yet we expect discipline as
well. Our elected representatives should not be trying to
impose new taxes when the State of Oregon has a $2.5 Billion
surplus and the largest budget in state history. Moreover, if 
the legislature is going to ask for a new tax under these 
conditions, it should not be telling voters the money will be
used for the Healthy Kids Program when more than 70% of the
money is going somewhere else.

Please “Vote NO” on Ballot Measure 50.

(This information furnished by Gary J. Straube, Secretary/Treasurer,
Dari-Mart Stores, Inc.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
85 | State Measures

Argument in Opposition

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

HMO’s and Insurance Companies Cash In 

with Ballot Measure 50

Under the new Healthy Kids Program, the State of Oregon
would just give health insurance companies and HMO’s new
business and would not require that they competitively bid for
the business.
Most working families have to shop for the lowest price. 
The state should have to do the same before handing business
to HMO’s and insurance companies. 

VOTE NO on Measure 50. The Buck Stops Here. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

(This information furnished by James L. Wilson, Oregonians Against the
Blank Check.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Argument in Opposition

BALLOT MEASURE 50:
THE BLANK CHECK FOR

BIG HEALTH INSURANCE COMPANIES AND HMOs

Even though proponents say Constitutional Amendment 50 is
for the children, it’s really for the insurance companies and
HMOs that will cash in from this proposal. 
Under the new “Healthy Kids” program, the State of Oregon
will give certain health insurance companies and HMOs new
business and will not require that they competitively bid for the
business.
And the state is going to trust those no-bid insurance 
contractors with tens of millions of your hard-earned money.
In fact, the State of Oregon’s Legislative Fiscal Office, or budget
evaluators, said in its analysis of Senate Bill 3 on June 22, 2007,
“A significant portion of the OPHP [Office of Private Health
Partnerships] expenditures are in the form of payment
subsidies to insurance providers...”
“…Marketing and outreach expenditures are estimated
at $6.1 million for the 2007-09 biennium, and $5.8 million 
for the 2009-11 biennium …Included within marketing and
outreach costs are finder fee payments…”

What’s worse is that the taxes for these payments to 
health insurance companies and HMOs will be cemented
in the Oregon Constitution. Blank checks to insurance 
companies and HMOs don’t belong in Oregon’s constitution.
Reject blank checks to insurance companies and HMOs.

Reject the State of Oregon handing business to them

without shopping for the lowest price. 

Reject Measure 50.
www.reject50.com

(This information furnished by James L. Wilson, Oregonians Against the
Blank Check.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by the
State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth of any
statement made in the argument.

Important!
If your ballot is lost, destroyed, damaged or you make a mistake
in marking your ballot, you may call your county elections
office and request a replacement ballot. One will be mailed to
you as long as you request it by November 1, 2007. After that,
you may pick it up at the elections office. If you have already
mailed your original ballot before you realize you made a 
mistake, you have cast your vote and will not be eligible for a
replacement ballot.
Your voted ballot must be returned to your county elections
office by 8pm election day, Tuesday, November 6, 2007.
Postmarks do not count!
County elections offices are open on election day from
7am to 8pm.

Voter Information
For questions about voter registration, ballot delivery and
return, marking the ballot, requesting a replacement ballot,
absentee ballots, signature requirements, the Voters' Pamphlet,
when and where to vote, and other questions about elections
and voting, call the toll-free voter information line at 
1-866-ORE-VOTES (1-866-673-8683).
Voter information line representatives can provide services in
both English and Spanish. TTY services for the hearing
impaired are also available at 1-866-350-0596.

General Information
Vote-by-Mail
What is Vote-by-Mail?
Vote-by-mail is a method of conducting elections. Instead of
using traditional polling places where voters go to cast ballots
on election day, a ballot is automatically mailed to each 
registered voter. The ballot is then voted and returned to the
county elections official to be counted.
As a voter, what do I have to do?
Your ballot packet will automatically be mailed to you between
October 19 and October 23, 2007. Inside the packet you will 
find the ballot, a secrecy envelope and a return envelope. Once
you vote the ballot, place it in the secrecy envelope and seal it 
in the pre-addressed return envelope. Be sure you sign the
return envelope on the appropriate line. After that, just return
the ballot either by mail or at a designated dropsite.
What if I am uncomfortable voting my ballot at home?
Privacy booths are available for you to cast your ballot. There
are privacy booths at your county elections office and there
may be others at dropsite locations elsewhere in your county.
For further information, call your county elections official.
What if my ballot doesn’t come?
If you are registered to vote and have not received your ballot
within a week after they are mailed, call your county elections
office. They will check that your voter registration is current. 
If it is, they will mail you a replacement ballot.
What if I have moved and have not updated my 
registration?
If you were registered to vote by October 16 but now have a
different address, call your county elections office for 
instructions on how to update your registration and receive a
ballot.
Do I have to return my ballot by mail?
You have the choice of mailing your ballot or returning it to any
county elections office or any designated dropsite in the 
state. The times and locations of dropsites are available at your
county elections office or online at www.oregonvotes.org.
How much postage is required to mail the ballot back?
Your voted ballot can usually be returned using a single 41¢
stamp. In those instances where additional postage is 
necessary, it will be clearly indicated on the ballot materials.
When must the voted ballot be returned?
The voted ballot must be received in any county elections office
or designated dropsite by 8pm on election night. Postmarks
do not count!
How do I know if my ballot is received?
You can call your county elections office and ask if they
received your ballot. A record is kept showing each voter
whose ballot has been returned.
Can anyone find out how I’ve voted once I mail my 
ballot?
No. All ballots are separated from the return envelope before
the ballots are inspected. This process ensures confidentiality.
What if I forget to sign the return envelope?
Generally, your elections office will either return it to you for
signing or they will contact you, if possible, to come to the 
elections office to sign it. If the return envelope does not get
signed before 8pm on November 6, the ballot will not be
counted.
Can the public watch the election process?
All steps of the process are open to observation by the public.
Contact your county elections official to make arrangements.
When will election results be known?
Ballot counting cannot begin until election day. Initial results
are released at 8pm election night and will continue to be
updated through election night until all ballots have been
counted.

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
87 | General Information

   xxx -xx -1 qualifications   If you mark no in response to either of these questions, do not complete this form.Are you a citizen of the United States of America? yes   noWill you be 18 years of age on or before election day?  yes   no2 personal information   *denotes optional informationname     last      first     middleOregon residence address (include apt. or space number)  city     zip codedate of birth (month/day/year)    county of residence*phone number*    email address*mailing address (required if different than residence address)  city     zip code3 political party  choose one of the following:Constitution Party  Democratic Party Independent Party   Libertarian Party  Pacific Green Party Republican Party Working Familes Party Not a member of a party Other4 Oregon DMV Driver's License/ID number  If you fill in this section, do not send a copy of ID.valid Oregon DMV Driver's License/ID numberMark here only if you do not have a valid Oregon DMV Driver's License/ID  and go to step 4a.4a last four digits of Social Security number  If you fill in this section, do not send a copy of ID.  last four digits of Social Security number   Mark  here only if you do not have a valid Oregon DMV Driver's License/ID or   a Social Security number. If you are registering by mail, please include a copy of  acceptable identification, listed to the left. 5 signature   I swear or affirm that I am qualified to be an elector and I have told the truth on this registration.sign here         date today If you sign this card and know it to be false, you can be fined up to $125,000 and/or jailed for up to 5 years.6 registration updates  If you are previously registered and updating your information, fill out this section.previous registration name    previous county and statehome address on previous registration  date of birth (month/day/year)(cid:41)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:65)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:66)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:104)(cid:46)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:118)(cid:33)(cid:78)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:87)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:66)(cid:74)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:53)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:4)(cid:18)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:0)(cid:45)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:0)(cid:38)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:75)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:26)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:22)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:50)(cid:37)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:15)(cid:22)(cid:23)(cid:19)(cid:0)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:24)(cid:19)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:215)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:87)(cid:14)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:22)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:21)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:16)(cid:21)(cid:25)(cid:22)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:38)(cid:38)(cid:38)(cid:38)(cid:38)(cid:38)(cid:38)(cid:38)(cid:38)County Elections Offices

Baker

Benton

Clackamas

Clatsop

Columbia

Coos

Crook

Curry

Deschutes

Tamara J. Green
Baker County Clerk
1995 3rd St., Suite 150
Baker City, OR 97814-3398
541-523-8207  TTY 541-523-9538
e-mail: tgreen@bakercounty.org

James Morales
Benton County Clerk
Elections Division
120 NW 4th St., Room 13
Corvallis, OR 97330
541-766-6756  TTY 541-766-6080
Fax 541-766-6757

Sherry Hall
Clackamas County Clerk
Elections Division
825 Portland Ave.
Gladstone, OR 97027
503-655-8510  TTY 503-655-1685
Fax 503-655-8461
e-mail: elections@co.clackamas.or.us
http://www.clackamas.us/elections

Nicole Williams
Clatsop County Clerk
Elections Division
PO Box 178
Astoria, OR 97103-0178
503-325-8511  TTY 503-325-9307
Fax 503-325-9307
e-mail: nwilliams@co.clatsop.or.us
http://www.co.clatsop.or.us

Elizabeth (Betty) Huser
Columbia County Clerk
Courthouse, 230 Strand St.
St. Helens, OR 97051-2089
503-397-7214 or 503-397-3796
TTY 503-397-7246  Fax 503-397-7266
e-mail: huserb@co.columbia.or.us
http://www.co.columbia.or.us

Terri L. Turi, CCC
Coos County Clerk
Courthouse, 250 N. Baxter
Coquille, OR 97423-1899
541-396-3121, Ext. 301
TTY 1-800-735-2900  Fax 541-396-6551
e-mail: elections@co.coos.or.us
http://www.co.coos.or.us

Deanna (Dee) Berman
Crook County Clerk
300 NE Third, Room 23
Prineville, OR 97754-1919
541-447-6553  TTY 541-416-4963

Renee´ Kolen
Curry County Clerk
PO Box 746
Gold Beach, OR 97444
541-247-3297 or 1-877-739-4218
TTY 1-800-735-2900  Fax 541-247-6440

Nancy Blankenship
Deschutes County Clerk
1300 NW Wall St., Suite 200
Bend, OR 97701
541-388-6546  Fax 541-383-4424
e-mail: elections@deschutes.org
http://www.deschutes.org

Douglas

Gilliam

Grant

Harney

Barbara E. Nielsen
Douglas County Clerk
PO Box 10
Roseburg, OR 97470-0004
541-440-4252  TTY 1-800-735-2900
Fax 541-440-4408
e-mail: dbshaver@co.douglas.or.us

Rena Kennedy 
Gilliam County Clerk
PO Box 427
Condon, OR 97823-0427
541-384-2311

Kathy McKinnon
Grant County Clerk
201 S. Humbolt, Suite 290
Canyon City, OR 97820-0039
541-575-1675  TTY 541-575-1675
Fax 541-575-2248
e-mail: mckinnonk@grantcounty-or.gov

Maria Iturriaga
Harney County Clerk
Courthouse, 450 N. Buena Vista
Burns, OR 97720
541-573-6641  Fax 541-573-8370
e-mail: clerk@co.harney.or.us
http://www.co.harney.or.us

Hood River

Sandra Berry
Director, Records/Assessment
601 State St.
Hood River, OR 97031-1871
541-386-1442  Fax 541-387-6864

Jackson

Jefferson

Josephine

Klamath

Kathy Beckett 
Jackson County Clerk
1101 W. Main St., Suite 201
Medford, OR 97501-2369
541-774-6148  TTY 541-774-6719
Fax 541-774-6140
e-mail: becketks@jacksoncounty.org
http://www.co.jackson.or.us

Kathy Marston 
Jefferson County Clerk
66 SE “D” St., Suite C
Madras, OR 97741
541-475-4451  Fax 541-325-5018
e-mail: kathy.marston@co.jefferson.or.us

Georgette Brown 
Josephine County Clerk
PO Box 69
Grants Pass, OR 97528-0203
541-474-5243  TTY 1-800-735-2900
Fax 541-474-5246
e-mail: gbrown@co.josephine.or.us

Linda Smith
Klamath County Clerk 
305 Main St.
Klamath Falls, OR 97601
541-883-5157 or 1-800-377-6094
Fax 541-885-6757
e-mail: pharris@co.klamath.or.us
http://www.co.klamath.or.us

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
90 | General Information

continued  

County Elections Offices

Lake

Lane

Lincoln

Linn

Malheur

Marion

Morrow

Stacie Geaney
Lake County Clerk
513 Center St.
Lakeview, OR 97630-1539
541-947-6006

Annette Newingham
Chief Deputy County Clerk
275 W. 10th Ave.
Eugene, OR 97401-3008
541-682-4234  TTY 541-682-4320
Fax 541-682-2303
http://www.co.lane.or.us/elections

Dana Jenkins 
Lincoln County Clerk
225 W. Olive St., Room 201
Newport, OR 97365
541-265-4131  TTY 541-265-4193
Fax 541-265-4950
http://www.co.lincoln.or.us/clerk

Steve Druckenmiller 
Linn County Clerk
300 SW 4th Ave.
Albany, OR 97321
541-967-3831  TTY 541-967-3831
Fax 541-926-5109
e-mail: sdruckenmiller@co.linn.or.us

Deborah R. DeLong 
Malheur County Clerk
251 “B” St. West, Suite 4
Vale, OR 97918
541-473-5151  TTY 541-473-5157
Fax 541-473-5523
e-mail: ddelong@malheurco.org
http://www.malheurco.org

Bill Burgess
Marion County Clerk
4263 Commercial St. SE, #300
Salem, OR 97302-3987
503-588-5041 or 1-800-655-5388
TTY 503-588-5610
e-mail: elections@co.marion.or.us
http://www.co.marion.or.us/co/elections

Bobbi Childers
Morrow County Clerk
PO Box 338
Heppner, OR 97836-0338
541-676-5604  TTY 541-676-9061
Fax 541-676-9876
e-mail: bchilders@co.morrow.or.us

Sherman

Tillamook

Umatilla

Union

Wallowa

Wasco

Linda Cornie 
Sherman County Clerk
PO Box 365
Moro, OR 97039-0365
541-565-3606  Fax 541-565-3312
e-mail: lcornie@sherman.k12.or.us

Tassi O’Neil
Tillamook County Clerk
201 Laurel Ave.
Tillamook, OR 97141
503-842-3402 or 1-800-488-8280, Ext. 4000
Fax 503-842-1599
e-mail: toneil@co.tillamook.or.us
http://www.co.tillamook.or.us

Patti Chapman
Director of Elections
PO Box 1227
Pendleton, OR 97801
541-278-6254  Fax 541-278-5467
e-mail: pattic@co.umatilla.or.us
http://www.co.umatilla.or.us

Robin Church 
Union County Clerk
1001 4th St., Suite D
LaGrande, OR 97850
541-963-1006  Fax 541-963-1013
e-mail: rchurch@union-county.org
http://www.union-county.org

Dana Roberts
Wallowa County Clerk
101 S. River St., Room 100
Enterprise, OR 97828-1335
541-426-4543, Ext. 17  Fax 541-426-5901
e-mail: wcclerk@co.wallowa.or.us
http://www.co.wallowa.or.us

Karen LeBreton Coats
Wasco County Clerk
511 Washington St., Room 201
The Dalles, OR 97058
541-506-2530 TTY 541-506-2530
Fax 541-506-2531
e-mail: karenl@co.wasco.or.us

Washington Mickie Kawai

Elections Division
3700 SW Murray Blvd., Suite 101
Beaverton, OR 97005
503-846-5800  TTY 503-846-4598
Fax 503-846-5810
e-mail: election@co.washington.or.us
http://www.co.washington.or.us

Multnomah

Polk

Wheeler

Yamhill

John Kauffman
Director of Elections
1040 SE Morrison St.
Portland, OR 97214-2495
503-988-3720  Fax 503-988-3719
e-mail: john.kauffman@co.multnomah.or.us
http://www.mcelections.org

Valerie Unger 
Polk County Clerk
850 Main St.
Dallas, OR 97338-3179
503-623-9217  TTY 503-623-7557
Fax 503-623-0717
e-mail: unger.valerie@co.polk.or.us
http://www.co.polk.or.us

Barbara S. Sitton
Wheeler County Clerk
PO Box 327
Fossil, OR 97830-0327
541-763-2400  TTY 541-763-2401
Fax 541-763-2026
e-mail: bsitton@ncesd.k12.or.us

Jan Coleman 
Yamhill County Clerk
414 NE Evans St.
McMinnville, OR 97128-4607
503-434-7518  TTY 1-800-735-2900
Fax 503-434-7520
e-mail: elections@co.yamhill.or.us
http://www.co.yamhill.or.us/clerk/elections

Official 2007 November Special Election Voters’ Pamphlet
91 | General Information

Secretary of State
Bill Bradbury
State Capitol
Salem, OR 97310-0722

NONPROFIT
CAR-RT SORT
U.S. Postage
PAID
Portland, OR
Permit No. 815

Residential Customer

Voters’ Pamphlet
State Measures

Oregon Special Election
November 6, 2007

Please recycle this pamphlet with your newspapers.

