Voters’
Pamphlet

Oregon Special Primary Election
November 8, 2011

To the voters of Oregon’s 1st Congressional District:

This November you have an important opportunity to select your party’s 
nominee to fill a vacant Congressional seat created by the resignation of 
former Congressman David Wu. The state is conducting this special primary 
election for the two major parties to nominate their candidates to be voted 
on in the special election on January 31, 2012.

Voters are used to receiving a voters’ pamphlet separate from their ballots. 
Because of the limited scope of this special primary election, I have 
enclosed your party’s candidate statements as an insert with your ballot. 
Doing so saved significant tax-dollars in postage during a time when Oregon 
continues to suffer a period of very slow economic activity.

Please take time to read each statement carefully as you consider which 
candidate to support, and make sure you get your ballot to your county 
elections office by 8:00 pm on November 8th. Voting is the foundation of our 
democracy; please make sure your voice is heard.

Sincerely,

Kate Brown 
Oregon Secretary of State

This voters’ pamphlet is provided for assistance in casting your vote-by-mail ballot.

My Vote!
Register to vote, check or update your 
registration and track your ballot online.

Find a dropsite
Your ballot must be received  
by 8 pm on November 8.
oregonvotes.org

Representative  
in Congress,  
1st District
Republican Candidates
 
Lisa Michaels
D R Delgado-Morgan
Pavel Goberman
Jim Greenfield
Rob Cornilles

for more information about  
voting in Oregon:
oregonvotes.org

1 866 673 VOTE / 1 866 673 8683 
se habla español

1 800 735 2900
for the hearing impaired

2

Candidates | Republican Candidates

Representative in Congress, 1st District

Representative in Congress, 1st District

Lisa 
Michaels
Republican

Occupation: Independent Media 
Consultant, TVCTV producer; 
host of “Live with Lisa 
Michaels”
Occupational Background: 
Local TV/radio advertising sales 
representative

Educational Background: Bachelor of Science, Kansas 
University
Prior Governmental Experience: Republican nominee for 
Oregon House (2000) and Oregon Senate (2008); alternate 
delegate to the Republican Convention (2004)
Our district’s seat in Congress became vacant on August 3, but 
it’s been empty for years. Oregon’s First has been last. Here’s 
how I’ll put Oregon First as your representative:
Defense: I lost a relative on 9/11. I supported our government’s 
efforts to find and punish the 9/11 masterminds. This year we 
succeeded. Our mission is complete. As your voice to put 
Oregon First, I’ll vote to bring home your sons and daughters, 
and our other brave troops, as soon as our ground command-
ers agree it is safe.
The Deficit: We can’t keep borrowing $1 trillion a year from our 
grandchildren. Congress needs a balanced budget amendment, 
and the place to start is with a balanced budget. We won World 
War II in less than five years; we can balance the budget in five 
years.
As your voice to put Oregon First, I’ll vote for budgets only if 
the deficit is less than $1 trillion in 2013, then decreasing on a 
sliding scale to zero by 2017.
Income Taxes: Congress must rein in high spending before 
talking about increasing taxes on hard-working Americans.
As your voice to put Oregon First, I’ll vote against raising your 
taxes to fund bloated budgets.
Taxes: The First District has a competitive advantage because 
Oregon has no sales tax. We need to promote this to attract 
businesses to consider Oregon First when relocating.
As your voice to put Oregon First, I’ll vote against raising your 
taxes. I will work with our state leaders to protect our no-sales-
tax advantage from federal interference.
Cable-TV: “Live with Lisa Michaels” 2nd Wed 7:30p ch11/22
Blog: www.ConservativeLisa.blogspot.com 
Hire Lisa Michaels to put Oregon First for you and your family.
(This information furnished by Lisa Michaels.)

D R 
Delgado-
Morgan
Republican

Occupation: IUOE Local 701, 
since June 1, 1994.
Occupational Background: 
IUOE Local 12, since November 

6, 1982, I became a Construction Corporation Vice President. 
1977-1982; I had 2 jobs: So. Cal. Edison Co. and Bookkeeper for 
a Construction Corp. 1974-1977: Security Pacific National Bank. 
My favorite job was helping people balance their checkbooks, 
by hand. 1972-1974: TG&Y New Department Store, I became 
Dept. Head of Shoes and Children’s Wear. Before 1972-1973: I 
helped the elderly clean their homes.
Educational Background: Yucaipa High School, 1974. 40 hrs 
Hazardous Material Course
Prior Governmental Experience: None. However, I’ve dealt with 
government agencies over construction contracts as a Project 
Engineer, Safety Officer, Superintendent, Project Manager and 
Vice President for a Construction Corporation.
Honor Family: My parents will be married 60 years in April, 
2012. I have been married for 25 years and will have lived in my 
home for 19 years as of Nov. 2011. I honor my family through 
my work, words, but mostly my deeds. As a working wife 
and mother I take pride in every job I do as it reflects me and 
represents my family. 
My husband was a USMC Captain/Marine Aviator and ODO 
when I was involved in repairing MCAS Tustin Heliport. For 
outstanding workmanship, our company received a gracious 
letter from the Station Commander. My husband and I began 
our relationship 2 years later, long after the job was complete.
I have 3 sons. They love their family and are very good at 
friendship. It takes hard work to make a good family life, but 
well worth it.
I believe our Government should protect our liberties and 
freedoms. Truly a government OF the people. Our Federal Gov-
ernment is accountable to we the people, ‘’No Money shall be 
drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations 
made by law; and a regular statement and account of receipts 
and Expenditures of all public money shall be published from 
time to time.” Article 1, Sec.9
(This information furnished by D R Delgado-Morgan.)

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

Representative in Congress, 1st District

Representative in Congress, 1st District

Official 2011 Special Primary Election Voters’ Pamphlet

3

Pavel 
Goberman
Republican

Jim 
Greenfield
Republican

Occupation: Founder/Provider 
of physical/mental fitness pro-
gram “Get Energized!” – book, 
video and exercise classes 
for governments, businesses 
and public: may prevent many 
illnesses, diseases (including 
cancers) and slow down the aging process. I’m in excellent 
health. (503)6-GET-FIT   www.getenergized.com/vote.html
Occupational Background: Author, Publisher, Producer, 
Speaker, Inventor, Consultant, Advisor, Trainer, Coach, Manager 
(had an Award), Supervisor, Social Worker, Counselor, Machin-
ist, Mechanic, Welder, Truck Driver, Logger, Firefighter and 
Beekeeper. I’m a Problem Solver.
Educational Background: Have 27 years of education, BA + 
Degree (Moscow, Russia). Attended a few universities and 
colleges in the USA. Linguist/Russian.
Prior Governmental Experience: 2010, Candidate for US Sena-
tor; 2008, Candidate for Commissioner of BOLI; Tank Army.
I’m honest, incorruptible, with faith, integrity and high moral 
principles. Do not accept any “contributions”.
Stop bribery, corruption and political/media prostitutions. 
Stop selling this country by the media junta/mafia. 
Stop buying elections by politicians. “The receiver is bad as the 
thief”, “Do not put robber to work in a bank”, proverbs.
No one better than me could help/rescue this state and nation.
I promise:
To defend this country from weapons of mass destruction,
Economy: I have a plan to create a few thousands jobs in 
Oregon and a few millions jobs in the USA. 
Budget: balance it in a few months.
Health Care: to all, cut cost of drugs.
Reduce Taxes: Income and Property.
Car Insurance is a Street Robbery. If no accident – 50% money 
back. 
Improve traffic on all US HWYs and cities.
Crimes: harder punishment.
Elect US Judges/Attorneys,
Seniors and Veterans: We owe them. Respect them! No privati-
zation of SocSec. 
Education: Improve discipline and quality.
Teach children to respect parents, teachers and elderly. 
Ban on Lobbyists.
Lock up borders to terrorists and criminals.
English must be official language.
OPB must broadcast debates of Candidates.
Help to make peace on the MiddleEast.
Was member AARP, WillamWriters, Elks and NRA.
Vote For Honesty In Government
(This information furnished by Pavel Goberman.)

Occupation: Real Estate
Occupational Background: 
Attorney; Talk Radio Host, Small 
Business Owner
Educational Background: B.A. 
Cornell government major; 

Penn Law School
Prior Governmental Experience: 2002 Republican Nominee 
Oregon’s First Congressional District

VOTE JIM GREENFIELD 

www.jimgreenfieldforcongress.com

America’s financial crisis was caused by irresponsible Wash-
ington politicians recklessly spending taxpayer money. Our 
problems won’t be solved by those who created them. We need 
new leadership in Congress committed to limited government 
and individual freedom.
Balance the Budget

We must stop out of control spending now - not in ten 
years. With a balanced budget, more money remains in 
the private sector where free enterprise can flourish, jobs 
can be created, and prosperity restored.

Cut Taxes

When big government spends, borrows, and taxes too 
much it produces bureaucracy, not wealth. Raising taxes 
won’t stop out of control spending. Lower taxes leave 
money in the private sector for consumers to spend and 
for businesses to create jobs.

Winning the War on Terrorism

We can defeat terrorism without going bankrupt. Instead 
of occupying foreign countries with huge armies, we 
should target and destroy terrorist networks directly. This 
will save trillions of dollars, thousands of young American 
lives, and win the war more quickly to secure peace and 
stability in the world.

No Bailouts for Failed Banks and Corporations

Government bailouts for companies politicians claim are 
“too big to fail” have cost taxpayers trillions of dollars. 
We need people in Congress who will stop this corrupt 
practice and end business as usual in Washington.

Get the Government Off Our Backs 

Excessive government regulation is killing jobs and 
deflating home values. We must reduce regulation, get 
the government out of the housing market, and let small 
businesses hire again so our economy can grow.

I’ve been an advocate for limited government and individual 
liberty for over 20 years. If I win this election I’ll fight to restore 
the principles which made America the wealthiest and greatest 
nation in the world.
(This information furnished by Jim Greenfield.)

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

Continued on reverse side 

4

Candidates | Republican Candidates

Representative in Congress, 1st District

Rob 
Cornilles
Republican

Occupation: President, Game 
Face Inc. (www.gamefaceinc.
com)
Occupational Background: 
Business owner
Educational Background: 

Newberg High School; BYU, BA
Prior Governmental Experience: None
Community Involvement: Board Member: Oregon League of 
Minority Voters; Virginia Garcia Memorial Foundation; Special 
Olympics of Oregon; Japan-America Society of Oregon, Busi-
ness Committee; Umpqua Bank Regional Division; National 
Advisory Board, Positive Coaching Alliance; former president 
of Southside Soccer. Volunteer: Good Neighbor Center; Boy 
Scouts of America; coached 16 youth teams.
Family: Married to Allison Au (25 years), father of three sons, 
ages 21, 18, 15.

Oregon Jobs: Our #1 Priority

Oregonians need jobs and opportunities, so let’s raise expecta-
tions of what a U.S. Representative should BE and DO and elect 
leaders who can deliver results.
Electing another lawyer to Congress won’t solve the problems 
we face. We need people who have been driving innovative 
small businesses, which I’ve been doing for 16 years.
I founded and kept Game Face in Oregon because my family 
loves it here. Over the years, we have employed 60 people, 
built a united team, and succeeded together. We have also 
helped launch more than 500 careers nationwide.
Unlike comfortable politicians, I have had to make personal 
sacrifices while sticking to a budget. While privileged politicians 
continue to play partisan games, we Oregonians struggle to 
find work, make ends meet, educate our kids, and prepare for 
retirement.

Simpler and Fairer Taxes

This economy confirms our need for a simpler and fairer tax 
code. I will work to eliminate corporate loopholes and lower 
the tax rates for everyone, creating more taxpayers and 
revenues.

Stop Mounting Debt

We can’t afford Washington, D.C. taking on more debt in 
wasteful attempts to stimulate the economy. By eliminating 
unreasonable regulations and government waste, Oregonians 
can and will create jobs and grow prosperity here at home.

Endorsements

A former Oregon governor and Oregon U.S. Senator, current 
legislators, mayors, county commissioners, and community 
and business leaders all want to work with Rob. For details, 
see:

www.CornillesForCongress.com

(This information furnished by Cornilles For Congress.)

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

View unofﬁcial 
election results 

starting at 8pm on November 8
starting at 8 pm on November 2

www.oregonvotes.org

for more information about 
voting in Oregon
oregonvotes.org

1 866 673 VOTE / 1 866 673 8683
se habla español

1 800 735 2900
for the hearing impaired

