Voters’
Pamphlet

Oregon Special Primary Election
November 8, 2011

To the voters of Oregon’s 1st Congressional District:

This November you have an important opportunity to select your party’s 
nominee to fill a vacant Congressional seat created by the resignation of 
former Congressman David Wu. The state is conducting this special primary 
election for the two major parties to nominate their candidates to be voted 
on in the special election on January 31, 2012.

Voters are used to receiving a voters’ pamphlet separate from their ballots. 
Because of the limited scope of this special primary election, I have 
enclosed your party’s candidate statements as an insert with your ballot. 
Doing so saved significant tax-dollars in postage during a time when Oregon 
continues to suffer a period of very slow economic activity.

Please take time to read each statement carefully as you consider which 
candidate to support, and make sure you get your ballot to your county 
elections office by 8:00 pm on November 8th. Voting is the foundation of our 
democracy; please make sure your voice is heard.

Sincerely,

Kate Brown 
Oregon Secretary of State

This voters’ pamphlet is provided for assistance in casting your vote-by-mail ballot.

My Vote!
Register to vote, check or update your 
registration and track your ballot online.

Find a dropsite
Your ballot must be received  
by 8 pm on November 8.
oregonvotes.org

Representative  
in Congress,  
1st District
Democratic Candidates
 
Dominic Hammon
Suzanne Bonamici
Brad Witt
Saba Ahmed*
Brad Avakian
Dan Strite
Robert E Lettin*
Todd Lee Ritter
 
*Did not submit a voters’ pamphlet 
statement.

for more information about  
voting in Oregon:
oregonvotes.org

1 866 673 VOTE / 1 866 673 8683 
se habla español

1 800 735 2900
for the hearing impaired

2

Candidates | Democratic Candidates

Representative in Congress, 1st District
Dominic 
Hammon
Democrat

No Image Provided

Occupation: Small Busi-
ness Owner/Construction/
Maintenance
Occupational Background: 
Small Business Owner/
Construction/Maintenance
Educational Background: AA Degree, General Contractors 
License
Prior Governmental Experience: None

As an average Oregonian I know it is time for the 1st 

Congressional District of Oregon be represented by an average 
Oregonian who is experiencing the same hard economic times. 
Our current congress isn’t doing anything to help small, rural 
or start up businesses as I found out recently. Small, rural and 
start up businesses are responsible for most of the new work 
created in America, not the top 1%.

These new businesses are started by average Americans 

who know how an education helps them run their business. 
When I returned to school to get an AA Degree I realized how 
an education plays a key role in developing and understand-
ing how a business functions. Education is what drives our 
economy, a high school education can get you in the door for a 
job, then a higher education moves you up the economic scale. 
This is how we should be expanding our economy. When a 
person has an education and work experience they are in the 
position to start their own business and help in expanding our 
economy.

As a person who enjoys the outdoors mainly through 

fishing, I was surprised to see the health advisory page in the 
state’s fishing regulations. A health advisory page made me 
realize how we need to protect our rivers, lakes and oceans. 
When pregnant women can’t eat fish out of local bodies of 
water it is time to make a change and keep our state’s water 
pristine.

I have never held a political office so I don’t owe any 

political favors. My only concern as your representative is what 
will improve your life. I know my hard work for you will restore 
your confidence in congress is again working for you, not 
themselves.

Vote Dominic Hammon a Rural Democrat who will work 

for you.
(This information furnished by Dominic Hammon.)

Representative in Congress, 1st District
Suzanne 
Bonamici
Democrat

Occupation: State Senator
Occupational Background: 
Consumer Protection Attorney
Educational Background: JD, 
BA, University of Oregon; AS 
Lane Community College

Prior Governmental Experience: State Representative; Attorney, 
Federal Trade Commission
Family: Married 26 years, two adult children

“Suzanne Bonamici is hardworking, ethical, and has a record  
of standing up for families, small businesses, and consumers. 

She will bring strong new leadership to Congress,  

and she has my enthusiastic support.” 

Governor Barbara Roberts 

Suzanne Bonamici has worked for consumers, small busi-
nesses, and Oregon families her entire career.

•  At the Federal Trade Commission Suzanne held the finan-
cial industry accountable for predatory lending practices.

•  As an attorney, she fought for small businesspeople 

whose life savings were endangered by dishonest 
practices.

•  As a volunteer, she worked with the Beaverton Education 

Foundation to improve local schools.

“As a legislator, Suzanne is a champion for consumers,  

stands up for Oregon’s middle class families, 

and has a remarkable record of getting things done.  

She is exactly who we need in Congress.” 

Oregon Attorney General John Kroger

Suzanne’s effective, principled leadership in Salem shows what 
she can and will do in Congress.

•  Suzanne fought to protect homeowners from mortgage 
and foreclosure abuse and she’ll stand up to those who 
use the system to gain unfair advantage.

•  Suzanne helped provide health coverage for 80,000 

Oregon children and she’ll protect Medicare and Social 
Security.

•  Suzanne increased access to capital for small businesses; 

she’ll invest in infrastructure and clean energy jobs, not 
tax breaks for big oil companies.

•  Suzanne strengthened public schools, community 

colleges, and universities; she’ll continue to promote 
education that emphasizes problem solving, not more 
standardized tests.

“Suzanne has been a real partner in building a foundation  

to create good jobs for our community’s future.  

Her intelligent, effective, and inclusive leadership is exactly 

what our economy needs.” 

David Vernier, CEO, Vernier Software &Technology 
Community, business, and elected leaders across  

Northwest Oregon support Suzanne 

See BonamiciForCongress.com

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

(This information furnished by Bonamici for Congress.)

Representative in Congress, 1st District

Representative in Congress, 1st District

Official 2011 Special Primary Election Voters’ Pamphlet

3

Brad 
Witt
Democrat

Occupation: State Representa-
tive; UFCW Local 555, Union 
Representative
Occupational Background: 
Sawmill Worker; Labor 
Economist; Oregon AFL-CIO 
Secretary-Treasurer

Educational Background: University of Oregon, M.A., Labor 
Relations; University of Massachusetts, B.A., History
Prior Governmental Experience: State Board of Forestry; 
Oregon Workforce Investment Board; Workers’ Compensa-
tion Management/Labor Advisory Committee; Oregon Forest 
Resources Institute; OSHA Safe Employment, Education and 
Training Committee; Oregon Watershed Enhancement Board
“Brad Witt will make an excellent United States Congress-
man. Every working person in Oregon and the United States 
will have a friend and strong advocate.” – Clif Davis, Business 
Manager, IBEW Local 48 

A Proven, Effective Leader 

Growing our Economy through Job Creation: Quality of life 
begins with a good job. The path to true economic prosperity 
can only be achieved through the creation of good paying jobs. 
We can neither tax nor cut our way to economic health.
The Deficit: I will get our nation’s budget back on track by bring-
ing home our troops and reinvesting those dollars back into 
our communities.
Protecting our Seniors: Working families have paid into Social 
Security and Medicare in good faith and as your Congressman, 
my top priority is to protect these benefits.
Education: A first class education system is the gateway to 
rewarding careers for our children, global competitiveness for 
our employers and economic prosperity for our nation.
Safe Neighborhoods: I passed legislation that makes it pos-
sible to prosecute sex offenders who fail to re-register when 
they move, ensuring better protection for our children and 
neighborhoods.
Support of our Veterans: I passed legislation to provide college 
credit for military experience and expanded education and 
housing benefits to veterans’ families.
I put myself through college by working in a sawmill. I’ve 
focused my career on fairness for all Oregonians. That’s why 
I’ve worked to support neighborhood business, local food 
banks and affordable housing. This is who I am. This is the 
agenda I’ll take to Congress.

For more information and a list of Brad’s endorsers:  

www.WittForCongress.com

(This information furnished by Brad Witt for Congress.)

Brad 
Avakian
Democrat

Occupation: As Oregon’s 
Commissioner of Labor and 
Industries, cracked down on 
corporations that denied work-
ers fair wages and safe working 
conditions
Occupational Background: 

Washington County civil rights attorney
Educational Background: OSU, B.S.; Lewis and Clark Law 
School, J.D.
Prior Governmental Experience: As State Senator and Repre-
sentative, helped ban predatory payday lenders from charging 
500% interest and made Oregon a leader in green jobs
Community: Founding board member of Emerge Oregon, 
which helps women run for office; Founding co-chair, Washing-
ton County Oregon League of Conservation Voters; President, 
Southwest Music School

Bringing change to Washington

“While Washington politicians answer to Wall Street and Tea 
Party extremists, Oregonians are struggling. I’ll end billions in 
giveaways to bankers to create jobs for middle class fami-
lies by investing in infrastructure and making college more 
affordable.”
Brad Avakian

Putting Oregon to work

“Brad Avakian restored career education to Oregon’s public 
schools and oversaw the training of thousands of apprentices.”
Dick O’Connor, Oregon Building Congress

Ensuring women’s right to healthcare

“Brad Avakian required insurers to cover birth control and 
breast cancer screenings, protected domestic violence victims 
and defends every woman’s right to choose.”
Elizabeth Newhall, M.D., Founder, EveryWoman’s Health Clinic

Protecting Medicare and Social Security

“Seniors support Brad Avakian. He’ll fight Republican plans to 
end Medicare and make harmful cuts to Social Security and 
Medicaid.”
Labor Commissioner Mary Wendy Roberts
Educating our children

“Brad Avakian has always fought to protect school funding and 
restore music, art and P.E.”
Jada Pearson, Beaverton Kindergarten Teacher
Closing unfair tax loopholes

“Brad Avakian will eliminate tax breaks for corporations that 
send jobs overseas, making him labor’s best choice.”
Jeff Smith, International Longshore and Warehouse Union
Avakian’s supporters include:
Metro President Tom Hughes 
Secretary of State Bill Bradbury 
Washington County Commissioner Greg Malinowski 
Multnomah County Chair Beverly Stein 
Clatsop County Commissioner Peter Huhtala 
Astoria Council President Arline LaMear 
Washington County Police Officer’s Association 
Laborers’ International Union 

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

Hundreds more at www.bradavakian.com
(This information furnished by Avakian for Congress.)
The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

Continued on reverse side 

4

Candidates | Democratic Candidates

Representative in Congress, 1st District

Dan 
Strite
Democrat

Occupation: Retired
Occupational Background: Golf 
Professional 1950-1990; Golf 
Course Owner Golf Professional 
1990-2008
Educational Background: 

Eugene, Oregon Public Schools K-12; Graduated From High 
School in 1949
Prior Governmental Experience: United States Marine Corp 
1952-1954
Dan Strite, a true American patriot as a candidate for the house 
of representatives, United States Congress.
My platform is: 
1/ Get out of the war business. 
2/ Govern through consensus.
Most Americans want the wars to end now. To make this hap-
pen Dan needs your help and support.
I have been blessed with many opportunities to serve my com-
munity as a volunteer: 
Clatsop County Circuit Court mediation, Seaside Public School 
District Budget Committee, C.A.D.Y. Mentoring, (Caring Adults 
Developing Youth) Astoria rescue mission board, Seaside High 
school golf coach, Astoria Alternative High school mentor, 
Smart Readers program, Master Gardener.
Our Country is crying out for direction. People want to be 
heard. I need your help to make positive change. 
Contact: Dan Strite 
Phone: 503-738-7528 
Email: dan.strite@gmail.com
Committee: Matt Brown, Kevin Irish, David Hatch 
Dan is happily married and resides in Clatsop County Oregon.
(This information furnished by Dan Strite.)

Representative in Congress, 1st District
Todd Lee 
Ritter
Democrat

Occupation: Independent 
Internet Textbook Dealer.
Occupational Background: 
business, managerial.
Educational Background: 
Andrew Jackson High School, 

Portland, OR Diploma, 1976. Portland Community College, 
Portland, OR 1974-1976. Portland State University, Portland, OR 
BA 1984 General Studies.
Prior Governmental Experience: Andrew Jackson High School, 
1972-1976, Freshman Class Vice President, Sophomore Class 
Treasurer, Junior Class President.
Lifetime Oregon, second generation. Born in Tigard, Oregon, 
May, 1958. The first District is literally my home town. I lived 
in the mid-west briefly in the 1960s. I recognize the unique 
qualities of Oregon. I understand the need to create livable 
wage jobs while striking a balance between business develop-
ment and sustaining our high environmental standards. A new 
compact is needed between the people and their government. 
Now, more than ever, we need mature adults managing the 
nation’s pocketbook in Washington, DC.
My legislative initiatives: Mandate E-Verify nationwide for 
all U.S. workers. Rename Homeland Security with new title 
encouraging more local community based citizen involvement. 
Establish a national standard for parking permits for disabled 
people. Require 50 state reciprocity for disabled driving 
placards. Authorize Medicare to allow physicians to conduct 
billable appointments via e-mail, text message and tele-
phone, instead of requiring office visits (conserves Medicare 
resources). Increase investment in national volunteer programs 
like AmeriCorps to encourage most Americans between ages 
18-22 years old to participate in national service by 2016. 
Partisan issues need to be put away. Statesmen-like votes need 
to be made for the common good, not partisan political gain. 
Thank you. Todd Ritter.
(This information furnished by Todd Lee Ritter.)

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

The above information has not been verified for accuracy by the State of Oregon.

