v o t e r s ’
p a m p h l e t

volume 1 – state measures

Oregon Vote-by-Mail General Election | November 2, 2004

Bill Bradbury
Oregon Secretary of State

This Voters’ Pamphlet is provided for assistance in casting your vote-by-mail ballot.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE

BILL BRADBURY

SECRETARY OF STATE

PADDY J. MCGUIRE

DEPUTY SECRETARY OF STATE

ELECTIONS DIVISION

JOHN LINDBACK

DIRECTOR

141 STATE CAPITOL

SALEM, OREGON 97310-0722

(503) 986-1518

Dear Oregonian,

It's time again to do your part for democracy. This is an historic election, with more activity
surrounding voter registration than ever before. As Chief Elections Officer, I'm excited to
see so much interest in voting, and I want to take this opportunity to thank those of you
who are already registered and to encourage those of you who aren't to register today.

By registering to vote, you give yourself the power and the opportunity to have a say in the
policies and priorities that govern our cities, counties, state and nation.

You should re-register if your address has changed, your name has changed, or your
signature has changed. If you are registering to vote for the first time or re-registering,
please use the voter registration card available in this pamphlet, or online at
www.OregonVotes.org. If you are registering for the first time, you must register by
October 12 to participate in this election.

If you have any questions about registration, about filling out your ballot, or about getting
a replacement ballot if you make a mistake, please call our toll-free voter information line
at 1-866-ORE-VOTES (1-866-673-8683) or our TTY line for the hearing impaired at
1-866-350-0596. Elections representatives are available to answer all of your questions
about voting Monday through Friday, 8:00 am to 5:00 pm. 

For those of you who are already registered to vote, please return your ballot so that it is
received by November 2. Remember, the decisions you make with your ballot will affect all
of our lives and our future.

Best Wishes,

Bill Bradbury
Oregon Secretary of State

On the cover: Mist rises from the frost on Fort Clatsop, the winter 1805-06 headquarters of Lewis and Clark’s
Corps of Discovery. This 1955 replica of the fort, reconstructed in the 1960’s, is situated proximate to the
original and lies at the heart of a significant advance in the commemoration of Lewis and Clark history: the
Lewis and Clark National and State Historical Park. This timely increase in federal, state and local coordination
of public stewardship, if enacted by Congress, will include sites throughout the lower Columbia region, such as
Fort Clatsop, Fort Stevens, Fort Canby, and Ecola Park. Photo courtesy of the United States National Park
Service.

General Information
Voters’ Pamphlet
Your official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet is divided
into two separate volumes. This is Volume 1 and contains
information on the eight statewide ballot measures, as well as
information on registering to vote.

Volume 2 will include the list of state candidates, statements
submitted by candidates and political parties, and information
about voting your ballot. It will also include your county Voters’
Pamphlet if your county chooses to produce a Voters’ Pamphlet
in combination with the state. Volume 2 will be delivered
October 13-15. 

For each of the eight statewide ballot measures in this Voters’
Pamphlet you will find the following information:

(1) the ballot title;
(2) the estimate of financial impact;
(3) the complete text of the proposed measure;

(4) an impartial statement explaining the measure (explanatory

statement); and

(5) any arguments filed by proponents and opponents of the

measure.

The ballot title is generally drafted by the Attorney General’s
office. It is then distributed to a list of interested parties for
public comment. After review of any comments submitted, the
ballot title is certified by the Attorney General’s office. The
certified ballot title can be appealed and may be changed by
the Oregon Supreme Court.

The estimate of financial impact for each measure is prepared by
a committee of state officials including the Secretary of State,
the State Treasurer, the Director of the Department of
Administrative Services and the Director of the Department of
Revenue. The committee estimates only the direct impact on
state and local governments, based on information presented to
the committee.
The explanatory statement is an impartial statement explaining
the measure. Each measure’s explanatory statement is written
by a committee of five members, including two proponents of
the measure, two opponents of the measure and a fifth member
appointed by the first four committee members, or, if they fail to
agree on a fifth member, appointed by the Secretary of State.
Explanatory statements can be appealed and may be changed
by the Oregon Supreme Court.
Citizens or organizations may file arguments in favor of or in
opposition to measures by purchasing space for $500 or by
submitting a petition signed by 1,000 voters. Arguments in favor
of a measure appear first, followed by arguments in opposition
to the measure, and are printed in the order in which they are
filed with the Secretary of State’s office.
Measure arguments are printed as submitted by the author.
The state does not correct punctuation, grammar, syntax
errors or inaccurate information. The only changes made are
attempts to correct spelling errors if the word as originally
submitted is not in the dictionary.

The voters’ pamphlet has been compiled by the Secretary of
State since 1903, when Oregon became one of the first states to
provide for the printing and distribution of such a publication.
One copy of the voters’ pamphlet is mailed to every household
in the state. Additional copies are available at the State Capitol,
local post offices, courthouses and all county elections offices.

Website
Most of the information contained in this voters’ pamphlet is also
available in the Online Voters’ Guide on the World Wide Web at
www.sos.state.or.us/elections/nov22004/nov22004.html

Español
Una versión en español de algunas partes de la Guía del Elector
está a su disposición en el portal del Internet cuya dirección
aparece arriba. Conscientes de que este material en línea podría
no llegar adecuadamente a todos los electores que necesitan
este servicio, se invita a toda persona a imprimir la versión en
línea y circularla a aquellos electores que no tengan acceso a
una computadora.

Important!
If your ballot is lost, destroyed, damaged or you make a mistake
in marking your ballot, you may call your county elections office
and request a replacement ballot. One will be mailed to you as
long as you request it by October 28. After that, you may pick it
up at the elections office. If you have already mailed your origi-
nal ballot before you realize you made a mistake, you have cast
your vote and will not be eligible for a replacement ballot.

Your voted ballot must be returned to your county elections
office by 8:00 p.m. election day, Tuesday, November 2, 2004.
Postmarks do not count!
County elections offices are open on election day from
7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

Voter Information
For questions about voter registration, ballot delivery and return,
marking the ballot, requesting a replacement ballot, absentee
ballots, signature requirements, the voters' pamphlet, when and
where to vote, and other questions about elections and voting,
call the toll-free voter information line at 1-866-ORE-VOTES
(1-866-673-8683).

Voter information line representatives can provide services in
both English and Spanish. TTY services for the hearing impaired
are also available at 1-866-350-0596.

Table of Contents

Page

County Elections Offices ....................................................

152

Voter Registration Information ............................................

Guide to State Measures....................................................

7

Voters with Disabilities........................................................

Voter Registration Card ...................................................... 5, 155

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
Official 2004 Primary Election Voters’ Pamphlet
3 | General Information
3 | General Information

Page

4

6

Selecting a political party
You may want to select a political party when you register but it
is not required.*

*Major political parties require you to be registered as a member of their
party in order to vote for their candidates in the Primary Election.

Updating your voter registration
Once you have registered, you are responsible for keeping your
information up to date. You can do this by completing and
returning a voter registration card with the new information.

You should update your registration if you do any of the
following:

➔ Change your home address
➔ Change your mailing address
➔ Change your name
➔ Change your signature
➔ Want to change or select a political party
If you notify your county elections office of your change of
residence address after October 12, 2004, you must request that
a ballot be mailed to you or go to your county elections office to
get your ballot.
You must include a copy of a current, valid form of identification
if you have moved to a new county and are updating your
registration by mail.

Voter Registration Information
Registering to Vote
To vote in Oregon you need to be registered in the county where
you reside.
You can register if you can answer yes to these three questions:
➔ Are you a resident of Oregon?
➔ Are you a US citizen?*
➔ Are you at least 18 years old?*

*In some cases you can register to vote before you turn 18 or before you
become a citizen. For more information call 1-866-ORE-VOTES.

Where and how to register
You can get a voter registration card at any of the following
places.
➔ In this Voters’ Pamphlet (page 5 or 155)
➔ Any County Elections Office
➔ The Secretary of State’s Office
➔ Some state agencies such as the Division of Motor Vehicles
➔ A voter registration drive
You can fill the card out in person or send it in by US mail.*

You can also print out a registration card online at
www.oregonvotes.org.

* If you register by mail, and this is your first time registering in Oregon or
you have moved to a new county and are updating your information, you
must include a copy of a valid form of identification.

Valid identification is a copy of one of the following showing your current
name and address:

➔ your current photo identification (such as a driver’s license)
➔ a paycheck stub
➔ a utility bill
➔ a bank statement
➔ a government document

To vote in the November 2, 2004, General Election, your com-
pleted voter registration card must be either:

➔ Postmarked by Tuesday, October 12, 2004
➔ Delivered to a county elections office by Tuesday, October 12,

2004 or

➔ Delivered to any voter registration agency (e.g., DMV) by 

Tuesday, October 12, 2004.

What is on the registration card
To complete your registration you will provide your:
➔ Full legal name
➔ Home address
➔ Date of birth
➔ Signature
➔ Valid identification (required only if you register by mail)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
4 | General Information

Voters with Disabilities
If, because of a disability, you would like
assistance in voting your ballot

or

You would like to request a cassette or 
CD version of the Voters’ Pamphlet

call

tty

1 866 ORE VOTES/673 8683
se habla español

1 866 350 0596
for the hearing impaired

A digital audio version of the 
Voters’ Pamphlet is available online at
www.sos.state.or.us/elections

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
6 | General Information

Guide to State Measures

Measure 31

Amends Constitution: Authorizes Law Permitting Postponement of Election for Particular Public
Office When Nominee for Office Dies

Measure 32

Amends Constitution: Deletes Reference to Mobile Homes from Provision Dealing with Taxes and
Fees on Motor Vehicles.

Measure 33

Amends Medical Marijuana Act: Requires Marijuana Dispensaries for Supplying
Patients/Caregivers; Raises Patients’ Possession Limit

Measure 34

Requires Balancing Timber Production, Resource Conservation/Preservation in Managing State
Forests; Specifically Addresses Two Forests

Measure 35

Amends Constitution: Limits Noneconomic Damages (Defined) Recoverable for Patient Injuries
Caused by Healthcare Provider’s Negligence or Recklessness

Measure 36

Amends Constitution: Only Marriage Between One Man and One Woman is Valid or Legally
Recognized as Marriage

Measure 37

Governments Must Pay Owners, or Forgo Enforcement, When Certain Land Use Restrictions
Reduce Property Value

Measure 38

Abolishes SAIF; State Must Reinsure, Satisfy SAIF’s Obligations; Dedicates Proceeds, Potential
Surplus to Public Purposes

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
7 | General Information

8

10

12

26

50

77

103

133

Measure 31

Senate Joint Resolution 19—Referred to the Electorate of
Oregon by the 2003 Legislative Assembly to be voted on at the
General Election, November 2, 2004.

Ballot Title31

AMENDS CONSTITUTION: AUTHORIZES LAW PERMITTING
POSTPONEMENT OF ELECTION FOR PARTICULAR PUBLIC
OFFICE WHEN NOMINEE FOR OFFICE DIES
RESULT OF “YES” VOTE: “Yes” vote amends constitution to
authorize law providing that an election for a particular public
office may be postponed when nominee for that office dies.
RESULT OF “NO” VOTE: “No” vote retains existing law, which
contains no provision permitting postponement of an election for
a particular public office when nominee for that office dies.
SUMMARY: Amends constitution. Current law does not
provide for the enactment of a law postponing an election for a
particular public offices when a nominee for that office dies.
Measure authorizes the legislature to enact a law permitting
postponement of an election for a particular public office when a
candidate nominated for that office dies; in that circumstance,
the legislature may enact a law: (1) allowing the postponement
of the regularly scheduled election for the office in question;
(2) allowing the office in question to be filled at a subsequent
election; and (3) prohibiting the votes cast for candidates at the
regularly scheduled election for the office in question from being
considered. Measure does not affect election process for other
candidates or measures on the ballot.
ESTIMATE OF FINANCIAL IMPACT: There is no financial effect
on state or local government expenditures or revenues.

Text of Measure
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Oregon:

PARAGRAPH 1. The Constitution of the State of Oregon is

amended by creating a new section 24 to be added to and
made a part of Article II, such section to read:

SECTION 24. When any vacancy occurs in the nomination
of a candidate for elective public office in this state, and the
vacancy is due to the death of the candidate, the Legislative
Assembly may provide by law that:

(1) The regularly scheduled election for that public office

may be postponed;

(2) The public office may be filled at a subsequent elec-

tion; and

(3) Votes cast for candidates for the public office at the

regularly scheduled election may not be considered.

PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolu-

tion shall be submitted to the people for their approval or
rejection at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Boldfaced type indicates new language; [brackets and
italic] type indicates deletions or comments.

Explanatory Statement

Ballot Measure 31 amends the Oregon Constitution to allow

the Legislative Assembly to enact laws that postpone an election
for an elective public office if a candidate nominated for that
office dies before the election. Current law does not allow the
postponement of an election when a nominee for public office
dies before the election.

Most elections in Oregon are conducted by mail. Under cur-

rent law, if a candidate nominated for public office dies after
ballots have been mailed to voters, the name of a new nominee
is not required to be printed on any replacement ballot. If the
candidate who has died receives the highest number of votes,
either the incumbent holding the office remains until a successor
is elected and qualified or a vacancy in the office results. For
most public offices, vacancies are filled by appointment.

Ballot Measure 31 allows the Legislative Assembly to pass

laws that change this result. The laws would apply only in cases
when a candidate nominated for elective public office dies
before the election and would provide that: (1) The regularly
scheduled election for that office be postponed; (2) The office be
filled at a subsequent special election; and (3) Votes cast for
candidates for the office at the regularly scheduled election may
not be considered, and the surviving candidates must stand for
and campaign for a subsequent special election.

Ballot Measure 31 is needed to provide exceptions to other

provisions of the Oregon Constitution that state that the person
who receives the highest number of votes is elected and that
require certain offices to be filled at the general election.

At its 2003 regular session, the Legislative Assembly passed a
law that will take effect only if Ballot Measure 31 is approved by
the people. The law applies only to candidates nominated by a
major political party for the office of Governor, Secretary of
State, State Treasurer, Attorney General, state Senator or state
Representative. If a candidate nominated by a major political
party for one of those offices dies within 30 days of a November
general election, the election for that office only will be post-
poned. The Secretary of State will call a subsequent special
election and the ballots cast for that office at the November
general election may not be counted.

Appointed by:
Committee Members:
President of the Senate
Senator Rick Metsger
Speaker of the House
Representative Betsy Close
Representative Bill Garrard
Secretary of State
Representative Wayne Krieger Secretary of State
Representative Cliff Zauner

Members of the Committee

(This committee was appointed to provide an impartial explanation of the
ballot measure pursuant to ORS 251.215.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
8 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 31 Arguments
Legislative Argument in Support

Ballot Measure 31 updates Oregon law to protect the right of the
people of Oregon to determine by election the positions of
Governor, Secretary of State, State Treasurer, Attorney General,
State Senator and State Representative. The Oregon Legislature
passed Senate Bill 552 during the 2003 session to provide for a
major political party to replace its nominee during the general
election if the nominee of that party dies within 30 days of a
general election.

Ballot Measure 31 makes the constitutional change necessary to
allow Senate Bill 552 to take effect.

Under current law, if a deceased candidate receives the highest
number of votes, either the incumbent holding the office remains
until a successor is elected or a vacancy in the office results. For
most public offices, vacancies are filled by appointment.

Recently, candidates in other states have died shortly before
general elections. Those states have had procedures in place to
allow elections to continue. Oregon currently has no procedures
in place to postpone the vote-by-mail election for that office in
such a situation. Ballot Measure 31 provides authority for a spe-
cial election to be conducted to allow a replacement candidate
to be placed on the ballot and considered by voters.
Ballot Measure 31 ensures that the voters, not the appointment
process, will determine who is elected to office. Ballot Measure
31 maintains the integrity of Oregon’s election process by ensur-
ing that their “elected” representatives are indeed elected by the
people.

We urge your support for Ballot Measure 31.

Committee Members:
Senator Rick Metsger
Representative Brad Avakian
Representative Vic Backlund

Appointed by:
President of the Senate
Speaker of the House
Secretary of State

(This Joint Legislative Committee was appointed to provide the legislative
argument in support of the ballot measure pursuant to ORS 251.245.)

Note: No arguments, other than the Legislative Argument in
Support, were filed with the Secretary of State.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
9 | Statewide Measures

Measure 32

Senate Joint Resolution 14—Referred to the Electorate of
Oregon by the 2003 Legislative Assembly to be voted on at the
General Election, November 2, 2004.

Ballot Title32

AMENDS CONSTITUTION: DELETES REFERENCE TO
MOBILE HOMES FROM PROVISION DEALING WITH TAXES
AND FEES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
RESULT OF “YES” VOTE: “Yes” vote allows taxes and fees on
mobile homes to be used for nonhighway purposes.
RESULT OF “NO” VOTE: “No” vote retains restriction on use of
taxes and fees on mobile homes.
SUMMARY: This measure authorizes expenditure of taxes and
fees on mobile homes for nonhighway purposes. Under current
law, taxes and fees on mobile homes are required to be spent
for highway or administrative purposes, but may also be used
for park purposes.
ESTIMATE OF FINANCIAL IMPACT: There is no financial effect
on state or local government expenditures or revenues.

Text of Measure
Be It Resolved by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Oregon:

PARAGRAPH 1. Section 3a, Article IX of the Constitution of

the State of Oregon, is amended to read:

Sec. 3a. (1) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this sec-
tion, revenue from the following shall be used exclusively for the
construction, reconstruction, improvement, repair, maintenance,
operation and use of public highways, roads, streets and road-
side rest areas in this state:

(a) Any tax levied on, with respect to, or measured by the

storage, withdrawal, use, sale, distribution, importation or receipt
of motor vehicle fuel or any other product used for the propul-
sion of motor vehicles; and

(b) Any tax or excise levied on the ownership, operation or

use of motor vehicles.

(2) Revenues described in subsection (1) of this section:
(a) May also be used for the cost of administration and any

refunds or credits authorized by law.

(b) May also be used for the retirement of bonds for which

such revenues have been pledged.

(c) If from levies under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this

section on campers, [mobile homes,] motor homes, travel
trailers, snowmobiles, or like vehicles, may also be used for the
acquisition, development, maintenance or care of parks or
recreation areas.

(d) If from levies under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this
section on vehicles used or held out for use for commercial pur-
poses, may also be used for enforcement of commercial vehicle
weight, size, load, conformation and equipment regulation.

(3) Revenues described in subsection (1) of this section that

are generated by taxes or excises imposed by the state shall be
generated in a manner that ensures that the share of revenues
paid for the use of light vehicles, including cars, and the share of
revenues paid for the use of heavy vehicles, including trucks, is
fair and proportionate to the costs incurred for the highway sys-
tem because of each class of vehicle. The Legislative Assembly
shall provide for a biennial review and, if necessary, adjustment,
of revenue sources to ensure fairness and proportionality.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
10 | Statewide Measures

PARAGRAPH 2. The amendment proposed by this resolu-

tion shall be submitted to the people for their approval or
rejection at the next regular general election held throughout
this state.
NOTE: Boldfaced type indicates new language; [brackets and
italic] type indicates deletions or comments.

Explanatory Statement
Ballot Measure 32 (Senate Joint Resolution 14) proposes an
amendment to section 3a, Article IX of the Oregon Constitution.
Section 3a, Article IX, specifies how revenues from taxes and
fees on motor vehicles may be used. Under the current version
of the section, fees on mobile homes are treated the same way
as fees on campers, motor homes, travel trailers, snowmobiles
and like vehicles. Revenues from the fees may be used only for
highways and parks or recreation areas and for administrative
expenses for highways and parks or recreation areas.
Ballot Measure 32 was referred to voters by the 2003
Legislature. It proposes to delete the term “mobile homes” from
section 3a, Article IX of the Constitution. The Legislature has
approved legislation directing that these fees be used for build-
ing code related services, as well as recording and transferring
ownership documents for these homes, and assisting counties
in gathering tax related information on mobile homes. The effect
of Ballot Measure 32 would be to allow fees imposed on mobile
homes to be used for these purposes.

The 2003 Legislature transferred authority to regulate mobile
homes from the Driver and Motor Vehicles Services Division
(DMV) to the Oregon Building Codes Division of the Department
of Consumer and Business Services (DCBS). Mobile homes will
no longer be titled as vehicles in Oregon.
Ballot Measure 32 has no effect on owners of mobile homes
continuing to pay highway use taxes and fees when moving the
homes on the highways.

Committee Members:
Senator Rick Metsger
Representative Alan Brown
Milton D. Aleshire
David Mandell
Don Miner

Appointed by:
President of the Senate
Speaker of the House
Secretary of State
Secretary of State
Members of the Committee

(This committee was appointed to provide an impartial explanation of the
ballot measure pursuant to ORS 251.215.)

continued ➔

Measure 32 Arguments
Legislative Argument in Support

To fully implement this modernization of Oregon law, Article IX,
Section 3a (1)(b) of the Oregon Constitution must be amended.

This change to Oregon law is supported by home owners,
industry and government. There is no identified opposition to
this change.
Please join us in voting yes on Measure 32.

Pat and Fred Schwoch
Manufactured Home Owners of Oregon (OSTA)

Greg Harmon, President
Oregon Manufactured Housing Association

Eva L. I. Arce, President
Oregon Association of County Tax Collectors

(This information furnished by Don Miner, Executive Director, Oregon
Manufactured Housing Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Note: No arguments in opposition to this ballot measure were
filed with the Secretary of State.

For as long as anyone can remember, manufactured dwellings
which include trailer houses, then mobile homes, and now manu-
factured homes have been regulated by the Division of Motor
Vehicles (DMV). The homes were titled and licensed by DMV
along with cars, trucks, campers, motor homes, travel trailers,
etc. For a long time, Oregonians have asked why are houses
regulated by DMV? 
The 2003 Oregon Legislature looked at the existing regulatory
framework and concluded that it no longer made sense and
change was needed. With the joint support of owners of manu-
factured dwellings, industry and government, the Legislature
reorganized the way these dwellings will be regulated by the
State of Oregon (SB 468).  
Beginning in May of 2005, DMV’s responsibilities to regulate
manufactured dwellings will be transferred to the Oregon
Building Codes Division (BCD). On that date, manufactured
dwellings will no longer be titled as vehicles. Instead, the
Building Codes Division will issue an ownership document for
the dwelling.
As part of this change, Article IX, Section 3a (1) (b) of the Oregon
Constitution must be amended to ensure that fees collected by
BCD when issuing the ownership document will remain with
BCD. This will permit the Oregon Building Codes Division to use
the fees to provide building code related services to owners of
these dwellings.
If this measure passes, manufactured dwellings will continue to
pay property taxes, the same as any other home.  
In addition, the owner of the dwelling will pay highway use fees,
such as weight mile fees, when moving the dwelling on the high-
ways. However, once the dwelling has been placed permanently
on the building site, the dwelling will not be assessed fees for
the highway fund. Owners of other types of dwellings do not pay
these fees.
We urge your support for Ballot Measure 32.

Appointed by:
Committee Members:
President of the Senate
Senator Rick Metsger
Representative Alan Brown
Speaker of the House
Representative Jackie Dingfelder Speaker of the House

(This Joint Legislative Committee was appointed to provide the legislative
argument in support of the ballot measure pursuant to ORS 251.245.)

Argument in Favor

THEY ARE NOT TRAILERS ANYMORE!

Yesterday’s mobile home has evolved into today’s modern man-
ufactured home. What was once considered a temporary form of
housing has become a source of permanent housing, offering all
of the construction quality and amenities of “site-built” homes.

Since the 1950’s, these homes have been regulated as vehicles,
and titled and licensed by the Oregon Division of Motor Vehicles
(DMV), along with cars, trucks, motor homes, and travel trailers.
Owners of the homes are required to pay fees to DMV. After
paying the appropriate fees, they are issued metal “plates”. And
like a license plate on a car, the plate must be displayed in the
window of the home.
In 2005 all of this will change. The homes will no longer be
considered vehicles. Responsibility for regulating these homes
will shift from the DMV to the Oregon Building Codes Division
(BCD). At that time, these homes will no longer be titled as vehi-
cles. Instead, the BCD will issue an ownership document for the
home.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
11 | Statewide Measures
11 | Statewide Measures

Measure 33

Proposed by initiative petition to be voted on at the General
Election, November 2, 2004.

Ballot Title33

AMENDS MEDICAL MARIJUANA ACT: REQUIRES
MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES FOR SUPPLYING PATIENTS/
CAREGIVERS; RAISES PATIENTS’ POSSESSION LIMIT
RESULT OF “YES” VOTE: “Yes” vote amends Medical
Marijuana Act: requires creating marijuana dispensaries to
supply patients/caregivers; allows dispensary/caregiver sales to
patients; increases amount patients may possess.
RESULT OF “NO” VOTE: “No” vote retains current Oregon
Medical Marijuana Act, which allows registered patients to
possess limited amounts of marijuana for medical purposes,
and prohibits marijuana sales.
SUMMARY: Oregon Medical Marijuana Act currently allows
registered patients to possess/deliver/produce limited amounts
of marijuana for medical purposes. Current law prohibits all
marijuana sales, including sales to patients. Measure creates
licensing program for nonprofit, regulated medical marijuana
dispensaries, which may supply six pounds marijuana yearly per
patient. Permits dispensaries to sell marijuana to registered
patients/caregivers; percentage of proceeds funds program.
Requires dispensaries to provide indigent patients marijuana.
Requires county health departments in counties without licensed
dispensaries to become dispensaries and supply marijuana to
registered patients. Allows designated caregivers to sell mari-
juana to their registered patients. Increases marijuana registered
patients may possess to ten mature plants, any number
seedlings, one pound usable marijuana (six pounds if patient
grows only one crop yearly). Other provisions.
ESTIMATE OF FINANCIAL IMPACT: The measure would require
state expenditures of $340,000 to $560,000 per year on a recur-
ring basis, with additional one-time start-up costs of $135,000.
All but $75,000 of these costs may be offset by fees to be
established by the Department of Human Services as provided
in the measure. The financial effect on local government
revenues and expenditures cannot be determined.

Text of Measure
Relating to medical marijuana; creating new provisions; and
amending ORS 475.300, 475.302, 475.306, 475.309, 475.312,
475.316, 475.319, 475.323, 475.328, 475.331, 475.334, 475.338,
475.340, 475.342
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:

SECTION 1. ORS 475.300 is amended to read:
475.300. The people of the state of Oregon hereby find that: 
(1) [Patients and doctors have found marijuana to be]

Marijuana is an effective treatment for suffering caused by
debilitating medical conditions[,] and, therefore, patients using
marijuana should be treated like patients using other medicines; 

(2) Oregonians suffering from debilitating medical conditions

should be allowed to use [small] adequate amounts of marijuana
without fear of civil or criminal penalties when their doctors
advise that such use may provide a medical benefit to them and
when other reasonable restrictions are met regarding that use; 

(3) ORS 475.300 to 475.346 are intended to allow Oregonians

with debilitating medical conditions who may benefit from the
medical use of marijuana to be able to discuss freely with their
doctors the possible risks and benefits of medical marijuana use
and to have the benefit of their doctor’s professional advice;
[and ]

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
12 | Statewide Measures

(4) ORS 475.300 to 475.346 are intended to make only those
changes to existing Oregon laws that are necessary to protect
patients and their doctors from criminal and civil penalties, and
are not intended to change current civil and criminal laws
governing the use of marijuana for nonmedical purposes[.];

(5) The State of Oregon has a right to regulate the public

health and safety of its citizens pursuant to the police power
reserved to the sovereign States by the Tenth Amendment to
the United States Constitution. This includes the right to
regulate the licensing of the wholly intrastate distribution of
marijuana for medical purposes;

(6) Citizens of Oregon have the fundamental personal

privacy right to use marijuana for medical purposes to
ameliorate pain, prolong life, and/or maintain bodily integrity,
and for other medical purposes as guaranteed by the Ninth
Amendment to the United States Constitution and as further
affirmed by the people of the State of Oregon by this Act;

(7) Patients for whom the medical use of marijuana is

beneficial have a personal privacy right to a safe affordable
supply of this medicine. No such supply can be guaranteed
to these patients unless the persons providing the marijuana
can be adequately compensated. No adequate supply of
medical marijuana can be assured for all patients who could
benefit from medical marijuana unless medical marijuana
can be safely and lawfully dispensed in a regulated
intrastate market; and

(8) Oregon citizens have a right to the best available

scientific information regarding the safety and efficacy of
medical marijuana. Experiments to determine the best infor-
mation cannot occur unless data is collected from patients
and licensed dispensaries. The people recognizing this right
enact amendments necessary to conduct these scientific
experiments.

SECTION 2. ORS 475.302 is amended to read: 475.302 As

used in ORS 475.300 to 475.346: 

(1) “Attending physician” means a physician licensed under
ORS chapter 677, a naturopath licensed under ORS chapter
685 or a nurse practitioner certified under ORS chapter 678
who has [primary] responsibility for the care and treatment of a
person diagnosed with a debilitating medical condition. 

(2) “Debilitating medical condition” means: 
(a) Cancer, glaucoma, positive status for human immuno-
deficiency virus or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, or
treatment for these conditions;

(b) A medical condition or treatment for a medical condition

that produces, for a specific patient, one or more of the
following: 

(i) Cachexia; 
(ii) Severe pain; 
(iii) Severe nausea; 
(iv) Seizures, including but not limited to seizures caused by

epilepsy; or

(v) Persistent muscle spasms, including but not limited to

spasms caused by multiple sclerosis; or

(c) [Any other medical condition or treatment for a medical
condition adopted by the division by rule or approved by the
division pursuant to a petition submitted pursuant to ORS
475.334.] Any other medical condition for which, in the
determination of the attending physician, the medical use of
marijuana would be beneficial.

(3) “Delivery” has the meaning given that term in ORS

475.005. 

(4) “Department” means the Department of Human

Services. 

[4] (5) “Designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver”

means an individual eighteen years of age or older who has sig-
nificant responsibility for [managing the well-being of] supplying
or assisting in supplying marijuana to a person who has been
diagnosed with a debilitating medical condition, and who is
[designated as such on that person’s application for a registry
identification card or in other written notification to the division.]

continued ➔

Measure 33

identified by a patient on the patient’s application for a
registry identification card or in other written notification to
the department changing or updating the designated
medical marijuana caregiver’s status. “Designated [primary]
medical marijuana caregiver” does not include the person’s
attending physician. A person who merely assists a patient in
the patient’s use of medical marijuana does not become that
patient’s designated medical marijuana caregiver by doing
so.

[(5) “Division” means the Health Division of the Oregon

Department of Human Services.]

(6) “Marijuana” has the meaning given that term in ORS

475.005. 

(7) “Medical marijuana dispensary” means a nonprofit

entity that possesses, produces, delivers, transports,
supplies, and/or dispenses medical marijuana to patients
and their designated medical marijuana caregivers, and to
other medical marijuana dispensaries. “Medical marijuana
dispensary” includes any employees or agents of such a
nonprofit entity.

[(7)] (8) “Medical use of marijuana” means the [production],

possession, production, delivery, transportation, or administra-
tion of marijuana, or paraphernalia used to administer marijuana
by smoking or vaporizing, eating or drinking, or through
poultices or tinctures, as necessary for the [exclusive] benefit
of a person or persons to mitigate the symptoms or effects of
[his or her] a debilitating medical condition. 

[(8)] (9) “Production” has the same meaning given that term in

ORS 475.005. 

[(9)] (10) “Registry identification card” means a document
issued by the [division] department that identifies a person
authorized to engage in the medical use of marijuana and the
person’s designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver, if
any.

[(10)] (11) “Usable marijuana” means the dried leaves and

flowers of the cannabis plant [Cannabis family Moracaea], and
any mixture or preparation thereof, that are appropriate for
medical use as allowed in ORS 475.300 to 475.346. “Usable
marijuana” does not include the seeds, stalks and roots of the
plant or any contaminated marijuana or any male marijuana
plants or any marijuana clearly intended to be discarded, or
the weight of other ingredients in marijuana prepared for
consumption as food.

[(11)] (12) “Written documentation” means a statement signed

by the attending physician of a person diagnosed with a
debilitating medical condition or copies of the person’s relevant
medical records. 

SECTION 3. ORS 475.306 is amended to read:
475.306. (1) A person who possesses a registry identification
card issued pursuant to ORS 475.309 may engage in, [and] or a
designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver of such [a
person] persons may assist in, the medical use of marijuana
[only as justified] and the possession, production, delivery, or
transportation of marijuana as needed to mitigate the symp-
toms or effects of the person’s debilitating medical condition.
Except as allowed in subsection (2) of this section, a registry
identification cardholder and that person’s designated [primary]
medical marijuana caregiver may not collectively possess,
produce, deliver, or transport [or produce] more than [the
following]:

[(a) If the person is present at a location at which marijuana is

not produced, including any residence associated with that
location, one ounce of usable marijuana; and]

[(b) If the person is present at a location at which marijuana is
produced, including any residence associated with that location,
three mature marijuana plants, four immature marijuana plants
and one ounce of usable marijuana per each mature plant.]

(a) Ten marijuana plants at any one time; and
(b) One pound of usable marijuana at any one time, unless
the person can show that they are only growing one crop of
marijuana per year, and has registered that information with
the department, in which case the person may possess up

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
13 | Statewide Measures

to six pounds per patient immediately following harvest,
which is the amount provided by the United States govern-
ment to patients through the Compassionate Investigational
New Drug Program of the Department of Health and Human
Services.

(2) If the individuals described in subsection (1) of this section

possess, produce, deliver or [produce] transport marijuana in
excess of the amounts allowed in subsection (1) of this section,
such individuals are not excepted from the criminal laws of the
state but may establish an affirmative defense to such charges,
by a preponderance of the evidence, that the greater amount is
medically necessary to mitigate the symptoms or effects of the
person’s debilitating medical condition.

(3) [The Health Division shall define by rule when a marijuana

plant is mature and when it is immature for purposes of this
section.] Cuttings, clones, seedlings, and starter plants shall
not be counted toward the ten plant limit unless they are
greater than one foot long measured in any direction or
contain usable mature female marijuana flowers.

SECTION 4. (1) A medical marijuana dispensary may not

possess, produce, deliver or transport marijuana for any
purpose except to assist patients with registry identification
cards in their medical use of marijuana or to assist desig-
nated medical marijuana caregivers in supplying usable
marijuana to qualified patients.

(2) A dispensary shall not deliver more than six pounds of

marijuana per year to a qualified patient or that person’s
designated medical marijuana caregiver unless that person
presents an additional statement from the person’s attend-
ing physician that the greater amount is medically necessary
as determined by the attending physician to mitigate the
symptoms or effects of the person’s debilitating medical
condition.

(3) A medical marijuana dispensary may not possess, 

produce, deliver, or transport an amount of marijuana
greater than needed to assure an adequate supply for
registered patients.

SECTION 5. ORS 475.309 is amended to read:
475.309. (1) Except as provided in ORS 475.316 and 475.342,
a person engaged in or assisting in the medical use of marijuana
or the possession, production, delivery, or transportation of
marijuana is excepted from the criminal laws of the state for
possession, production, delivery, or transportation [or produc -
tion] of marijuana, aiding and abetting another in the possession,
production, delivery, or transportation [or production] of
marijuana or any other criminal offense in which possession,
production, delivery, or transportation [or production] of
marijuana is an element, if the following conditions have been
satisfied: 

(a) The person holds a registry identification card issued

pursuant to this section, has applied for a registry identification
card pursuant to subsection ([9]10) of this section, or is the
designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver of a
cardholder or applicant; and 

(b) The person who has a debilitating medical condition and

his or her [primary] medical marijuana caregiver are collectively
[in possession of] possessing, producing, delivering or
[producing] transporting marijuana for medical use in the
amounts allowed in ORS 475.306. 

(2) The [division] Department of Human Services shall

establish and maintain a program for the issuance of registry
identification cards to persons who meet the requirements of
this section. Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section,
the department shall issue a registry identification card to any
person who pays a fee in the amount established by the
[division] department and approved by the Oregon Medical
Marijuana Commission created by Section 23 of this 2004
Amendment and provides the following: 

(a) Valid, written documentation from the person’s attending

physician stating that the person has been diagnosed with a
debilitating medical condition and that the medical use of

continued ➔

Measure 33

marijuana may mitigate the symptoms or effects of the person’s
debilitating medical condition and, if applicable, any statement
by the person’s attending physician that the person may
need to exceed the limits established in ORS 475.306(1).

(b) The name, address and date of birth of the person; 
(c) The name, address and telephone number of the person’s

attending physician; and 

(d) The name and address of the person’s designated
[primary] medical marijuana caregiver, if the person has
designated a [primary] medical marijuana caregiver at the time
of application. 

(e) A statement, for purposes of ORS 475.306(1)(b),

declaring whether the patient or their designated medical
marijuana caregiver will grow only one marijuana crop per
year.

(3) The [division] department shall issue a registry identifica-
tion card to a person who is under 18 years of age if the person
submits the materials required under subsection (2) of this
section, and the custodial parent or legal guardian with respon-
sibility for health care decisions for the person under 18 years of
age signs a written statement that: 

(a) The attending physician of the person under 18 years of

age has explained to that person and to the custodial parent or
legal guardian with responsibility for health care decisions for the
person under 18 years of age the possible risks and benefits of
the medical use of marijuana; 

(b) The custodial parent or legal guardian with responsibility
for health care decisions for the person under 18 years of age
consents to the use of marijuana by the person under 18 years
of age for medical purposes; 

(c) The custodial parent or legal guardian with responsibility
for health care decisions for the person under 18 years of age
agrees to serve as the designated [primary] medical marijuana
caregiver for the person under 18 years of age; and 

(d) The custodial parent or legal guardian with responsibility
for health care decisions for the person under 18 years of age
agrees to control the acquisition of marijuana and the dosage
and frequency of use by the person under 18 years of age. 
(4) (a) A person applying for a registry identification card

pursuant to this section may submit the information required in
this section to a county health department for transmittal to the
[division] Department of Human Services. A county health
department that receives the information pursuant to this
subsection shall transmit the information to the [division]
Department of Human Services within five days of receipt of
the information. Information received by a county health
department pursuant to this subsection shall be confidential and
not subject to disclosure, except as required to transmit the
information to the [division] Department of Human Services.
(b) A person may present to their County Health Officer

written proof of a diagnosis within the last year of a
debilitating medical condition listed in ORS 475.302(2). The
County Health Officer shall authenticate the diagnosis of a
debilitating medical condition and this authentication shall
meet the requirements in ORS 475.309(2)(a) that an attending
physician state that the medical use of marijuana may
mitigate the symptoms or effects of the person’s debilitating
medical condition.

(5) The [division] department shall verify the information

contained in an application submitted pursuant to this section
and shall approve or deny an application within thirty days of
receipt of the application. 

(a) The [division] department may deny an application only for

the following reasons: 

(i) The applicant did not provide the information required

pursuant to this section to establish his or her debilitating
medical condition and to document his or her consultation with
an attending physician or authentication of the debilitating
medical condition by a county health officer regarding the
medical use of marijuana in connection with such condition, as
provided in subsections (2) and (3) of this section; or 

(ii) The [division] department determines that the information

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
14 | Statewide Measures

provided was falsified. 

(b) Denial of a registry identification card shall be considered a
final [division] department action, subject to judicial review. Only
the person whose application has been denied, or, in the case of
a person under the age of 18 years of age whose application
has been denied, the person’s parent or legal guardian, shall
have standing to contest the [division’s] department’s action.
Jurisdiction shall be in the Circuit Court, and venue will lie in
either the district where the applicant lives or in the district
where the denial occurred, at the applicant’s discretion.

(c) Any person whose application has been denied may not

reapply for six months from the date of the denial, unless so
authorized by the [division] department or a court of competent
jurisdiction. 

(6) (a) If the [division] department has verified the information
submitted pursuant to subsections (2) and (3) of this section and
none of the reasons for denial listed in subsection (5)(a) of this
section is applicable, the [division] department shall issue a
serially numbered registry identification card within five days of
verification of the information. The registry identification card
shall state: 

(i) The cardholder’s name, address and date of birth; 
(ii) The date of issuance and expiration date of the registry

identification card; 

(iii) The name and address of the person’s designated

[primary] medical marijuana caregiver, if any; and 

(iv) Such other information as the [division] department may

specify by rule. 

(b) When the person to whom the [division] department has
issued a registry identification card pursuant to this section has
specified a designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver,
the [division] department shall issue an identification card to the
designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver at the
caregiver’s address listed on the application. The [primary]
medical marijuana caregiver’s registry identification card shall
contain the primary information provided in paragraph (a) of this
subsection. 

(7) (a) A person who possesses a registry identification card

shall: 

(i) Notify the [division] department of any change in the
person’s name, address, attending physician or designated
[primary] medical marijuana caregiver; and 

(ii) Annually submit to the [division] department:
(A) Updated written documentation of the person’s debilitating

medical condition; and 

(B) The name of the person’s designated [primary] medical

marijuana caregiver if a [primary] medical marijuana caregiver
has been designated for the upcoming year.

(b) If a person who possesses a registry identification card
fails to comply with this subsection, the card shall be deemed
expired. If a registry identification card expires, the identification
card of any designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver of
the cardholder shall also expire. 

(8) When a person notifies the department of any change

in the person’s name, address, designated medical 
marijuana caregiver, or address of a registered garden, the
department shall issue the person a new registry identifica-
tion card within ten days of receipt of the updated
information and shall issue a new registry identification card
for the person’s designated medical marijuana caregiver.

[(8)] (9) A person who possesses a registry identification card

pursuant to this section and who has been diagnosed by the
person’s attending physician as no longer having a debilitating
medical condition shall return the registry identification card to
the [division] department within seven calendar days of
notification of the diagnosis. Any designated [primary] medical
marijuana caregiver shall return his or her identification card
within the same period of time. 

[(9)] (10) A person who has applied for a registry identification

card pursuant to this section or that person’s designated
medical marijuana caregiver, [but] whose application has not
yet been approved or denied, and who is contacted by any law

continued ➔

Measure 33

enforcement officer in connection with his or her administration,
possession, [delivery, or] production, delivery, or transportation
of marijuana for medical use may provide to the law enforce-
ment officer a copy of the written documentation submitted to
the [division] department pursuant to subsections (2) or (3) of
this section and proof of the date of mailing or other transmis-
sion of the documentation to the [division] department. This
documentation shall have the same legal effect as a registry
identification card until such time as the person receives notifi-
cation that the application has been approved or denied. The
department shall provide copies of an application for status
as a registered patient or as a designated medical marijuana
caregiver to the person submitting the application at the
time the application is submitted to the department. These
copies must be marked to clearly indicate the date the
application was received by the department.

SECTION 6. ORS 475.312 is amended to read:
475.312. (1) If a person who possesses a registry identification

card issued pursuant to ORS 475.309 chooses to have a 
designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver, the person
must designate the [primary] medical marijuana caregiver by
including the [primary] medical marijuana caregiver’s name and
address: 

(a) On the person’s application for a registry identification

card; 

(b) In the annual updated information required under ORS

475.309; or 

(c) In a written, signed statement submitted to the [division]

Department of Human Services.

(2) A person described in this section may have only one

designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver at any given
time but may change their designated medical marijuana
caregiver at any time by notifying the department and paying
an additional ten-dollar fee.

(3) A person who merely assists a qualified patient with

their medical use of marijuana but who is not designated as
such on the patient’s application form or in other written
communication with the department shall not be considered
that patient’s designated medical marijuana caregiver.

(4) A person may be the designated medical marijuana

caregiver for up to ten patients without a medical marijuana
dispensary license.

(5) When a patient who possesses a registry identification
card changes their designated medical marijuana caregiver,
the department shall notify the designated medical
marijuana caregiver within ten days. The designated medical
marijuana caregivers’ exception from criminal laws shall
expire ten days after notification by the department of their
cancellation.

(6) Designated medical marijuana caregivers may be

compensated by their registry identification cardholders in
any manner agreed on by both parties. This compensation
shall not constitute transfer of marijuana for consideration
for the purposes of ORS 475.992.

SECTION 7. (1) A medical marijuana dispensary is

excepted from the criminal laws of the state for possession,
production, delivery, or transportation of marijuana, or aiding
and abetting another in the possession, production, delivery,
or transportation of marijuana, or any other criminal offense
in which possession, production, delivery, or transportation
of marijuana is an element, if:

(a) The medical marijuana dispensary holds a medical
marijuana dispensary license issued by the department
pursuant to this section;

(b) The only delivery of marijuana is between the licensed
medical marijuana dispensary and a person holding a valid
registry identification card, designated caregiver card, or
another licensed medical marijuana dispensary; and

(c) The medical marijuana dispensary is in substantial

compliance with applicable rules promulgated by the
department for regulating medical marijuana dispensaries.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
15 | Statewide Measures

(2) (a) The department shall establish and maintain a

program for the issuance of medical marijuana dispensary
licenses to persons who meet the requirements of this
section. The department shall promulgate rules and proce-
dures necessary to create a supply of medical marijuana for
qualified patients. These rules shall be promulgated to
create an intrastate market in medical marijuana subject to
regulations necessary to ensure that medical marijuana is
available to qualified patients. 

(b) The department shall issue a medical marijuana dis-
pensary license to any person who provides the following:

(i) A fee paid to the department in the amount established

by the department by rule. This fee shall initially be set at
$1000;

(ii) A petition signed by at least twenty-five registry

identification cardholders calling for the establishment of
the dispensary;

(iii) The name of the dispensary;
(iv) The physical address of the dispensary and any other
property where medical marijuana is possessed, produced,
delivered, transported, processed, or cultivated related to
the operations of the dispensary; and

(v) The name, address, and date of birth of any person
who is an agent of or employed by the medical marijuana
dispensary.

(3) Notwithstanding subsection (4)(a) below, any county

health department may be licensed by the department as a
medical marijuana dispensary. If no private dispensary is
licensed in a county where one or more registered patients
resides within six months following enactment of these
amendments then the department shall grant the County
Health Department a medical marijuana dispensary license
waiving the signature and license fee requirements. Once so
licensed, the county health department shall dispense
medical marijuana to registered patients in that county as
needed. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
impinge on patients’ rights to cultivate their own medical
marijuana, designate a medical marijuana caregiver to
cultivate for them, or procure marijuana at a dispensary of
their choice.

(4) The department shall establish the necessary rules and

procedures to regulate the operation of medical marijuana
dispensaries, including the following:

(a) Medical marijuana dispensaries shall be established as

nonprofit entities. They shall be subject to all applicable
Oregon laws governing nonprofit entities, but need not have
received 501(c)(3) status from the Internal Revenue Service. 

(b) Medical marijuana dispensaries shall be subject to

reasonable inspection by the department to determine that
applicable rules are being followed. Reasonable notice shall
be given prior to these inspections.

(c) Medical marijuana dispensaries shall file quarterly

reports with the department. These reports shall include:

(i) An accounting of all income from and all expenditures
incurred to possess, produce, deliver, or transport medical
marijuana;

(ii) The quantity of marijuana in ounces delivered to each
cardholder by their card number in a manner that maintains
the confidentiality of the registry cardholders’ identity.

(iii) The total quantity of marijuana in ounces delivered for

consideration.

(iv) The total revenue received from marijuana delivered

for consideration.

(v) The total quantity of marijuana in ounces delivered for

no consideration and the total quantity delivered to each
indigent patient in a manner that maintains the confidential-
ity of the registry cardholders’ identity.

(d) The department shall collect a monthly fee from each
medical marijuana dispensary that is a percentage of gross
revenue from delivery of medical marijuana. The percentage
shall be set at 10% unless the department determines that
this is insufficient to fund the program in which case the

continued ➔

Measure 33

department may increase the percentage but not more than
to 20%.

(e) The department shall set these fees and the fee for a
dispensary registration license at a level to cover the costs
of administering the Oregon Medical Marijuana Program.
These costs shall not include the costs for legal advice and
rulemaking which shall be paid out of the budget of the
Department of Human Services.

SECTION 8. The department shall establish a program to

assist indigent patients in obtaining medical marijuana. 

(1) The purpose of this program is to provide a minimum

supply of usable medical marijuana to every registry
identification cardholding patient.

(2) The department shall establish income standards

based on eligibility for the Oregon Health Plan. A patient
shall qualify for this program if their income is at or below
the level set for qualifying for the Oregon Health Plan. A
patient who meets the income requirements but has
insurance other than the Oregon Health Plan shall also be
covered.

(3) Patients whose income is below the level set by the
Oregon Health Plan shall receive a certificate of indigence
from the department that the patient may use to acquire
medical marijuana at no cost from medical marijuana
dispensaries. 

(4) Each medical marijuana dispensary shall be required to

provide medical marijuana to indigent patients. The dollar
value of the medical marijuana provided to indigent patients
must be at least 20% of the total dollar value of medical
marijuana sold by each medical marijuana dispensary each
month.

(5) Each dispensary shall report monthly to the depart-
ment detailing which indigent patients received medical
marijuana from the dispensary and how much medical
marijuana in ounces they received, and the dollar value of
the medical marijuana in a manner that maintains the
confidentiality of the indigent patients

(6) The department shall promulgate rules and procedures

necessary to implement this program.

(7) The department shall establish penalties for abuse of

this program by dispensaries. Discriminating against
indigent patients by a pattern of delivering lower grade
medicine shall be considered abuse.

(a) The penalty for a first violation shall be a warning.
(b) The penalty for a second violation shall include fines

up to 20% of the monthly revenue of the dispensary.

(c) The penalty for a third violation shall include

suspension of the dispensary’s license for a period of time
to be determined by the department.

(d) The penalty for a fourth violation shall be revocation of

the dispensary license.

(e) A licensed medical marijuana dispensary shall have the

right to de novo review by the Commission established by
Section 23 of these amendments, and shall have the right to
review of the Commission’s decision by the Court of Appeals
upon filing a notice of appeal within sixty days following an
adverse decision by the commission.

(8) The department shall establish a system of auditing

the reports provided by the medical marijuana dispensaries
to determine that no indigent patient is receiving more
marijuana than is allowed by this act. 

SECTION 9. ORS 475.316 is amended to read:
475.316. (1) No person authorized to possess, produce,
deliver, or transport [or produce] marijuana for medical use
pursuant to ORS 475.300 to 475.346 shall be excepted from
the criminal laws of this state or shall be deemed to have
established an affirmative defense to criminal charges of which
possession, production, delivery [or production] or transporta-
tion of marijuana is an element if the person, in connection with
the facts giving rise to such charges: 

(a) Drives under the influence of marijuana as provided in

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
16 | Statewide Measures

ORS 813.010; 

(b) [Engages in the medical use of] Smokes marijuana in a

public place, as that term is defined in ORS 161.015, or in public
view or in a correctional facility as defined in ORS 162.135(2) or
youth correction facility as defined in ORS 162.135(6); 

(c) Delivers marijuana to any individual who the person knows

is not in possession of a registry identification card; 

(d) Delivers marijuana for consideration to any individual, even
if the individual is in possession of a registry identification card,
unless the person delivering marijuana for consideration is
an agent or employee of a medical marijuana dispensary, or
the designated medical marijuana caregiver delivering to the
patient for whom they are designated; or

(e) [Manufactures or produces marijuana at a place other than

one address for property under the control of the patient and
one address for property under the control of the primary
caregiver of the patient that have been provided to the Health
Division; or] Manufactures or produces marijuana at a place
that has not been registered with the department.

[(f) Manufactures or produces marijuana at more than one

address.]

(2) In addition to any other penalty allowed by law, a person

who the [division] department finds has willfully violated the
provisions of ORS 475.300 to 475.346, or rules adopted under
ORS 475.300 to 475.346, may be precluded from obtaining or
using a registry identification card for the medical use of
marijuana for a period of up to six months, at the discretion of
the [division] department.

SECTION 10. ORS 475.319 is amended to read: 
475.319. (1) Except as provided in ORS 475.316 and 475.342,

it is an affirmative defense to a criminal charge of possession
[or], production, delivery, or transportation of marijuana, or any
other criminal offense in which possession [or], production,
delivery, or transportation of marijuana is an element, that the
person charged with the offense is a person who: 

(a) Has been diagnosed with a debilitating medical condition
within 12 months prior to arrest and has been advised by his or
her attending physician that the medical use of marijuana may
mitigate the symptoms or effects of that debilitating medical
condition; or is the designated medical marijuana caregiver
for such a person;

(b) Is engaged in the [medical use of marijuana] possession,
production, delivery, or transportation of marijuana for medical
use; and 

(c) Possesses or produces marijuana only in the amounts

allowed in ORS 475.306(1), or in excess of those amounts if the
person proves by a preponderance of the evidence that the
greater amount is medically necessary as determined by the
person’s attending physician to mitigate the symptoms or effects
of the person’s debilitating medical condition.

(2) It is not necessary for a person asserting an affirmative
defense pursuant to this section to have received a registry
identification card in order to assert the affirmative defense
established in this section. 

[(3) No person engaged in the medical use of marijuana who
claims that marijuana provides medically necessary benefits and
who is charged with a crime pertaining to such use of marijuana
shall be precluded from presenting a defense of choice of evils,
as set forth in ORS 161.200, or from presenting evidence
supporting the necessity of marijuana for treatment of a specific
disease or medical condition, provided that the amount of
marijuana at issue is no greater than permitted under ORS
475.306 and the patient has taken a substantial step to comply
with the provisions of ORS 475.300 to 475.346].

(3) No person charged with possession, production,

delivery, transportation, or manufacture of marijuana, or any
other criminal offense in which the possession, production,
delivery, transportation, or manufacture of marijuana is an
element of the offense shall be precluded in any way from
asserting the defense of choice of evils as set forth in ORS
161.200, where the person reasonably believes that the
possession, production, delivery, transportation, or

continued ➔

Measure 33

manufacture of marijuana is medically necessary. No such
person shall be prevented from presenting any evidence,
including scientific evidence, in support of the reasonable-
ness of the p e r s o n ’s belief. The objective reasonableness of
the person’s belief shall be an issue only for the trier of fact
and the trial judge shall instruct the jury on the elements of
the defense in all cases where such person subjectively has
such reasonable belief.

(4) Any defendant proposing to use the affirmative defense
provided for by this section in a criminal action shall, not less
than five days before the trial of the cause, file and serve upon
the district attorney a written notice of the intention to offer such
a defense that specifically states the reasons why the defendant
is entitled to assert and the factual basis for such affirmative
defense. If the defendant fails to file and serve such notice, the
defendant shall not be permitted to assert the affirmative
defense at the trial of the cause unless the court for good cause
orders otherwise.

(5) If any person registers with the department as a

medical marijuana patient subsequent to his or her arrest
and can establish by a preponderance of the evidence that
he or she suffered from the debilitating medical condition at
the time of his or her arrest, any conviction arising out of
that arrest in which the possession, production, delivery, or
transportation of marijuana is an element shall be
punishable as a violation with a fine not to exceed $500.

SECTION 11. The department shall utilize data collected

from registered cardholders and licensed medical marijuana
dispensaries to engage in scientific research as to the safety
and efficacy of marijuana as medicine. The department shall
annually publish a report of the data and results. The depart-
ment will establish procedures to assist any dispensary, or
any private or government researcher, in conducting
research into the safety and efficacy of medical marijuana.

SECTION 12. ORS 475.323 is amended to read:
475.323 (1) Possession of a registry identification card or

designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver identification
card pursuant to ORS 475.309 shall not alone constitute proba-
ble cause to search the person or property of the cardholder or
otherwise subject the person or property of the cardholder to
inspection by any governmental agency.

(2) Any property interest possessed, owned, or used in

connection with the medical use of marijuana or acts incidental
to the medical use of marijuana that has been seized by state or
local law enforcement officers shall not be harmed, neglected,
injured, or destroyed while in the possession of any law enforce-
ment agency. A law enforcement agency has no responsibility to
maintain live marijuana plants lawfully seized. No such property
interest may be forfeited under any provision of law providing
for the forfeiture of property other than as a sentence imposed
after conviction of a criminal offense. Usable marijuana and
paraphernalia used to administer marijuana that was seized by
any law enforcement office shall be returned immediately upon a
determination by the district attorney in whose county the
property was seized, or his or her designee, that the person from
whom the marijuana or paraphernalia used to administer
marijuana was seized is entitled to the protections contained in
ORS 475.300 to 475.346. Such determination may be evidenced,
for example, [be] by a decision not to prosecute, the dismissal
of charges, or acquittal.

(a) If the law enforcement agency involved refuses to

return usable marijuana to the registry identification 
cardholder or designated medical marijuana caregiver card-
holder then the law enforcement agency shall be liable to
the cardholder for the fair market value of the marijuana.

SECTION 13. ORS 475.326 is amended to read:
475.326 No attending physician may be subjected to civil
penalty or discipline by the Board of Medical Examiners for:

(1) Advising a person whom the attending physician has diag-

nosed as having a debilitating medical condition, or a person
who the attending physician knows has been so diagnosed by

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
17 | Statewide Measures

another physician licensed under ORS chapter 677, about the
risks and benefits of medical use of marijuana or that the med-
ical use of marijuana may mitigate the symptoms or effects of
the person’s debilitating medical condition, provided the advice
is based on the attending physician’s personal assessment of
the person’s medical history and current medical condition; or 

(2) Providing the written documentation necessary for

issuance of a registry identification card under ORS 475.309, if
the documentation is based on the attending physician’s
personal assessment of the applicant’s medical history and
current medical condition and the physician has discussed the
potential medical risks and benefits of the medical use of
marijuana with the applicant. 

SECTION 14. ORS 475.328 is amended to read:
475.328. No professional licensing board may impose a civil

penalty or take other disciplinary action against a licensee based
on the licensee’s medical use of marijuana in accordance with
the provisions of ORS 475.300 to 475.346 or actions taken by
the licensee that are necessary to carry out the licensee’s role as
a designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver to a person
who possesses a lawful registry identification card issued
pursuant to ORS 475.309. 

SECTION 15. ORS 475.331 is amended to read:
475.331. (1) The [division] department shall create and main-
tain a list of the persons to whom the [division] department has
issued registry identification cards pursuant to ORS 475.309
[and], the names of any designated [primary] medical marijuana
caregivers, and any information concerning medical mari-
juana dispensaries. Except as provided in subsection (2) of this
section, the list shall be confidential and not subject to public
disclosure. 

(2) Names and other identifying information from the list

established pursuant to subsection (1) of this section may be
released to: 

(a) Authorized employees of the [division] department as

necessary to perform official duties of the [division] department;
and 

(b) Authorized employees of state or local law enforcement
agencies, only as necessary to verify that a person is a lawful
possessor of a registry identification card or that a person is the
designated [primary] medical marijuana caregiver of such a
person or that a medical marijuana dispensary is licensed
and registered.

(3) The department shall establish a system so that law

enforcement agencies can verify this information at any
time.

(4) Law enforcement agencies shall contact the depart-
ment prior to obtaining a search warrant in any marijuana
case unless they have specific credible evidence that activ-
ity not authorized under 475.300 to 475.342 has occurred. 

SECTION 16. ORS 475.334 is amended to read:
[475.334. Any person may submit a petition to the division
requesting that a particular disease or condition be included
among the diseases and conditions that qualify as debilitating
medical conditions under ORS 475.302. The division shall adopt
rules establishing the manner in which the division will evaluate
petitions submitted under this section. Any rules adopted
pursuant to this section shall require the division to approve or
deny a petition within 180 days of receipt of the petition by the
division. Denial of a petition shall be considered a final division
action subject to judicial review.]

SECTION 17. ORS 475. 338 is amended to read:
475.338. The [division] Department of Human Services
shall adopt all rules necessary for the implementation and
administration of ORS 475.300 to 475.346. Rulemaking
expenses and any costs associated with legal advice sought
by the department shall be paid out of the budget of the
Human Resources Department and not from the Oregon
Medical Marijuana Program budget.

continued ➔

Measure 33

SECTION 18. ORS 475.340 is amended to read:
475.340. Nothing in ORS 475.300 to 475.346 shall be

construed to require:

(1) A government medical assistance program or private

health insurer to reimburse a person for costs associated with
the medical use of marijuana; or

(2) An employer to accommodate the medical use of

marijuana in any workplace except that the status of being a
registered medical marijuana patient shall not in and of itself
constitute cause for denial or termination of employment. 

SECTION 19. ORS 475.342 is amended to read:
475.342. Nothing in ORS 475.300 to 475.346 shall protect a

person from a criminal cause of action based on possession,
production, or delivery of marijuana that is not authorized by
ORS 475.300 to 475.346. 

SECTION 20. Reciprocity. The laws and rules of states
with medical marijuana laws shall be given full faith and
credit by the state of Oregon.

SECTION 21. Any person who lawfully possesses a

registry identification card, as defined in ORS 475.302(9), or
any medical marijuana dispensary as defined in ORS
475.302(7), shall be guaranteed such rights as are conferred
by this Act, by means of a cause of action in law or equity,
against any person who acts to deny such rights.

SECTION 22. If provisions of this act establishing medical
marijuana dispensaries are enjoined or declared unconstitu-
tional, then enforcing laws against delivery of marijuana for
consideration to cardholding patients shall be the lowest
priority of law enforcement.

SECTION 23. (1) The department shall establish the

Oregon Medical Marijuana Commission. This commission
shall oversee the management of the Oregon Medical
Marijuana Program administered by the department. This
Commission shall have the authority to propose administra-
tive rules, veto OMMP staff decisions, and suggest future
legislative changes to this Act. The staff of the Oregon
Medical Marijuana Program must follow directives of this
Commission.

(2) The Commission shall consist of the following

positions:

(a) One patient representative elected by the registry

identification cardholding patients;

(b) One caregiver representative elected by the

cardholding caregivers;

(c) One medical marijuana dispensary representative

elected by the dispensaries; 

(d) One representative from law enforcement chosen by

the Oregon District Attorneys Association;

(e) One representative from the criminal defense bar

chosen by the Oregon Criminal Defense Lawyers
Association;

(f) One representative from the medical profession to be

chosen by the Governor after consultation with medical
professional organizations; and

(g) One representative from the department who will serve

as a non-voting member.

(3) The department shall promulgate all rules necessary

for the implementation of this section. 

SECTION 24. Any amendment to any provision of the
Oregon Medical Marijuana Act (ORS 475.300 to 475.346)
enacted after the filing of the initiative measure proposing
these 2004 amendments to the Act, but prior to its
enactment, are hereby repealed.

SECTION 25. Severability. If any Section or part of this act
is declared invalid, then all the remaining Sections remain in
effect. 
NOTE: Boldfaced type indicates new language; [brackets and
italic] type indicates deletions or comments.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
18 | Statewide Measures

Explanatory Statement
Ballot Measure 33 allows the creation of licensed non-profit
dispensaries regulated by the Oregon Department of Human
Services to produce, possess, and sell marijuana to registered
patients and/or caregivers. The measure requires dispensaries to
pay license fees, keep records, submit monthly reports, be
subject to inspection, and pay 10-20% of gross revenue to the
Oregon Medical Marijuana Program to fund the program. The
measure requires a program for indigent patients to receive
medical marijuana at no cost from licensed dispensaries.
Dispensaries must distribute to indigent patients an amount at
least 20% of the dollar amount sold to registered patients each
month. Dispensaries must report monthly to the department how
much medical marijuana was dispensed to indigent patients.
Penalties for non-compliance will be established by the depart-
ment. If no dispensary exists in a county within six months of
passage of this measure, the department shall grant the county
health department a medical marijuana dispensary license,
waiving the signature and license fee requirements. Licensed
dispensaries are subject to felony prosecution if they are found
to be out of substantial compliance with the department’s
regulations or to have distributed marijuana to persons other
than caregivers, patients, or other dispensaries.
Current law allows a caregiver to serve an unlimited number of
patients. The measure limits caregivers to serving up to 10
patients without a medical marijuana dispensary license. The
measure allows designated medical marijuana caregivers to be
compensated by their registry identification cardholders in any
manner agreed on by both parties.
The measure increases the amount of marijuana that may be
possessed by a registered patient or designated medical
marijuana caregiver to 10 marijuana plants and one pound of
usable marijuana at any one time. However, if a registered
patient or designated medical marijuana caregiver has provided
information to the state demonstrating that the person is
growing only one crop per year, that person may possess up to
six pounds per patient immediately following that one harvest.
With physician approval, patients may exceed statutory limits.

The measure amends the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act to
include licensed Naturopaths and Nurse Practitioners in the
definition of “attending physician” for purposes of the Act. The
measure expands “debilitating medical condition” to include any
other medical condition for which the use of marijuana would
benefit the patient as determined by the attending physician.

The measure requires law enforcement agencies to contact the
department prior to obtaining a search warrant in any marijuana
investigation unless they have specific credible evidence that
unlawful activity has occurred. The measure retains criminal
penalties for non-medical use of marijuana.
The department shall promulgate rules to implement this act and
shall establish the Oregon Medical Marijuana Commission to
oversee the management of the Oregon Medical Marijuana
Program, administered by the department. The Commission
would have authority to propose rules, veto staff decisions, and
suggest legislative changes.
The department shall engage in scientific research as to the
safety and efficacy of marijuana as medicine and annually
publish a report of the data and results.

Committee Members:
Edward Glick
John Sajo
Sheriff Bernie Giusto
Anna Peterson
Don Smith

Appointed by:
Chief Petitioners
Chief Petitioners
Secretary of State
Secretary of State
Members of the Committee

(This committee was appointed to provide an impartial explanation of the
ballot measure pursuant to ORS 251.215.)

continued ➔

Measure 33 Arguments
Argument in Favor

Patients and Caregivers Say Vote Yes on Measure 33

Oregon Green Free (OGF) is a non-profit organization of

Oregon Medical Marijuana Program patients and caregivers,
registered with the Oregon Medical Marijuana Program (OMMA).

We support Measure 33 for the following reasons:

It addresses many of the problems patients/caregivers have

encountered under the laws of the original OMMA.

It allows for a more reasonable amount of medication to be

grown and possessed by the patient/caregiver.

It allows for the creations of dispensaries where patients/care-

givers may obtain medical marijuana and not have to resort to
the black market.

It frees up law enforcements time, and resources, to concen-

trate on more serious crimes.

It supplies patients who are incapable both physically and

financially access to free medicine.

Oregon Green Free does not endorse, nor encourage, illegal

drug use. We are a group of patients and caregivers who use
marijuana as an alternative medicine for the relief of pain, suffer-
ing, and as a substitute for more damaging pharmaceuticals.

We ask for your support in passing Ballot Measure 33 to help

us do so legally and safely.

Marijuana used for medicinal purposes is medicine and it

works.

Please vote Yes on Measure 33.

Oregon Green Free – Patients and Caregivers United

(This information furnished by James L. Klahr, Oregon Green Free.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Measure 33 creates dispensaries to act like pharmacies.
Marijuana is medicine. Qualified patients should be able to get it
at Health Department regulated dispensaries just like they would
use a pharmacy for other medicine.

Oregon voters passed the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act
(OMMA) six years ago. This law allows patients, with a doctor’s
approval, to grow marijuana for medical use. This law has been
a blessing to the thousands of qualified patients who are able to
grow marijuana or find a caregiver to grow it for them. But most
patients are too sick to grow marijuana or they need it
immediately and the OMMA doesn’t address where patients are
supposed to get it. Measure 33 addresses this.

Our opponents claim marijuana is not medicine. Then why have
1,413 Oregon doctors qualified their patients (in writing)? All the
foot dragging on medical marijuana is just hurting patients!
Federal law prevents Oregon pharmacies from selling medical
marijuana; Measure 33 creates a system of dispensaries reg-
ulated by the Health Department to supply patient’s needs.
Unlike the current “caregiver” system, dispensaries would be
regulated and fees they pay would fund the program.

This system will work for everyone. Patients will be able to get
medicine in a safe and secure environment, where they are able
to obtain medicine of consistent quality at an affordable price.
Law enforcement will have fewer patients growing their own
marijuana to worry about. The criminal justice system will save

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
19 | Statewide Measures

money and can focus on serious crimes. The Oregon Health
Plan will save money because many patients can reduce their
(subsidized) intake of other drugs when they have medical mari-
juana. Policy makers will benefit from the scientific research
funded by the program.
Vote for compassion and common sense. Please Vote Yes on
Measure 33.

(This information furnished by John Sajo, A Life with Dignity Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Measure 33 will pay for itself

The 1998 Voter Pamphlet’s estimated fiscal impact for the
Oregon Medical Marijuana Act was, “annual state expenditures
are estimated at $147,000…Some or all of these costs may be
offset by fees…”
As of March 2004 the Oregon Medical Marijuana Program
had a cash surplus of $986,356. This is revenue from patient
fees that exceeds expenditures to run the program.
Measure 33 will save taxpayers’ money.
The Oregon Medical Marijuana Program costs taxpayers
nothing and actually adds to the general fund. The program
pays for itself and will continue generating a surplus. Over
$25,000 has already been taken from patient fee revenues and
put into the general fund by Oregon House Bill 2148. Plus, when
patients can get their medical marijuana at dispensaries instead
of growing their own, there will be fewer medical marijuana
conflicts with law enforcement thus decreasing burden on law
enforcement budgets.
Surplus funds generated by the Oregon Medical Marijuana
Program will be used to fund research into the safety and effi-
cacy of marijuana as medicine. We can do that research right
here in Oregon and determine what conditions benefit from mar-
ijuana. We can find healthier ways to administer marijuana so
patients don’t have to smoke it. Scientists can determine what
constituents in marijuana are most active and why they work.
Our marijuana policy can be guided by science, not myth.
Measure 33 regulates medical marijuana.

After this law passes, medical marijuana will come from regu-
lated, licensed, inspected dispensaries. Patients will know what
they are getting. The illegal market supported by desperate
patients will dry up.

Measure 33 is a compassionate law that means less suffering for
thousands of patients. And it will also save Oregonians money.
Please vote Yes on Measure 33.
John Sajo
Chief Petitioner, Measure 33
Dillard, Oregon

(This information furnished by John Sajo, A Life with Dignity Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 33 Arguments
Argument in Favor

Measure 33 Facts Point to a Yes Vote
Number of Oregon physicians participating in the Oregon
Medical Marijuana Program:
1,413

Number of registered patients:
10,196

Number of significant adverse health consequences:
0

Number of pharmacies where patients can buy medical
marijuana:

0
Marijuana is medicine. It can be used safely and effectively
under a doctor’s supervision.
If you or your loved one needed this medicine, wouldn’t you
want to be able to get it through a safe regulated system?
Shouldn’t the 1,413 doctors supervising patient’s medical mari-
juana use have the best possible scientific research to guide
them?
Vote Yes on 33

(This information furnished by John Sajo, A Life with Dignity Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Compassionate Physicians Support Measure 33

As physicians, we support the rights of patients to use medi-
cines that might help them treat their conditions. We know
medical marijuana helps patients, including those for whom
standard pharmaceutical options cause adverse effects or fail.
That’s why we urge you to vote YES on Measure 33.
For centuries, patients used marijuana (cannabis) as medicine,
achieving favorable results to treat a variety of conditions. Even
as medical technology improves, pain and symptom control
remains an important part of compassionate medical care. Many
dying and suffering patients are afflicted with conditions for
which the responsible use of marijuana as medicine helps.
Patients with cancer, AIDS, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord
injuries, intractable pain and other debilitating conditions report
significant relief of symptoms by using marijuana as medicine.
Numerous reports and articles including the 1999 Institute of
Medicine report commissioned by the White Office of National
Drug Control Policy conclude marijuana works as medicine.
Currently, the federal government schedules marijuana so physi-
cians cannot prescribe it even though we can prescribe powerful
drugs like morphine. In spite of federal intransigence, we know
state laws like the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act help because
over 10,000 patients and 1,400 doctors participate.
Measure 33 is an amendment to the Oregon Medical
Marijuana Act that expands patient access to medical care
and medicine. Measure 33 is not legalization because a
health care provider must qualify the patient. Primarily, Measure
33 establishes dispensaries so patients can get immediate
access to medicine – just like a pharmacy. Please join us and
vote YES on Measure 33.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
20 | Statewide Measures

Richard Bayer, MD
Larry Bogart, MD
Alan Cohn, MD
Nancy Crumpacker, MD
David Dodge, MD
Peter Goodwin, MD

(This information furnished by Richard Bayer, MD.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Patients with spinal injuries deserve a reliable source of
medicine

Medical marijuana makes my life bearable. I was paralyzed from
the neck down by a drunk driver years ago. I am dependent on
my caregivers’ help to eat, take my medicine, and do just about
everything else. I still have pain, even though I can’t move.
Doctors prescribe morphine and other strong drugs for my pain.
And, I am patient-cardholder in the Oregon Medical Marijuana
Act (OMMA) program.
Marijuana lessens my pain and makes me feel better. When I
have a steady supply of good medical marijuana I use less
morphine. It makes my life worth living. Measure 33 will help
patients gain access to a safe steady supply of medical
marijuana.

Many patients with spinal injuries find medical marijuana helps
relieve pain and spasm caused by nerve damage . . . even when
other medicines fail or cause bad side effects.
Because of restrictions in the current OMMA, it is very difficult
for caregivers to help me. I am unable to smoke marijuana so I
depend on my caregiver to make medicated cookies that I use.
It would be much easier for both of us if we could just buy med-
ical marijuana products at a pharmacy or dispensary. Measure
33 dispensaries would be able to provide patients like me with a
consistent supply of medicine. That’s why I agreed to be a
Chief-Petitioner for Measure 33.
Measure 33 is an amendment to the already successful Oregon
Medical Marijuana Act passed by voters in 1998. Measure 33
will add state regulated dispensaries where patients can
safely and reliably purchase medical marijuana.
This will improve access to medicine for many patients. So,
please join me and Vote Yes on Measure 33.
Ken Brown, quadriplegic
Chief Petitioner, Measure 33
Gresham, Oregon

(This information furnished by Kenneth Scott Brown, A Life with Dignity
Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

The war on drugs should not interfere with medical care.
Many patients with debilitating conditions benefit from medical
use of marijuana. If federally legal, physicians would prescribe
marijuana to suffering patients, many of whom are terminally ill.
Instead, compassionate citizens must pass state laws to exclude
patients with debilitating conditions from state criminal laws. The
examination room is for treating patients and should never be a
battlefield for the war on drugs. The decisions of dying and

continued ➔

Measure 33 Arguments

suffering patients should be respected.

Some persons with cancer or AIDS find marijuana controls
nausea, vomiting, and weight loss allowing them to pursue
treatment. Patients with spinal injuries and multiple sclerosis find
relief from severe muscle spasms (spasticity) common with
nerve damage. Many with painful conditions find relief with mari-
juana when other medicines fail.
I became a doctor to help others and that’s also why I was a
chief petitioner for the first Oregon Medical Marijuana Act
(OMMA) passed by Oregonians in 1998. Measure 33 is often
called “OMMA 2” because both medical marijuana initiatives are
moderate proposals to protect patients with serious illnesses
from arrest and prosecution when using marijuana under med-
ical supervision. Neither are “legalization” initiatives since both
require authorization by a medical practitioner.

Measure 33 improves the original OMMA by improving access to
medical care and medicine. Measure 33 creates medical mari-
juana dispensaries so someone who needs medical cannabis
immediately does not have to wait months to grow a garden. It
also allows Nurse Practitioners and Doctors of Naturopathy to
sign registry applications and increases possession limits to
necessary amounts used by patients. When it comes to pain
and symptom management, Measure 33 is truly a “patient bill
of rights”.
Please join me and vote YES on Measure 33.
Richard Bayer, MD, FACP
Board-Certified, Internal Medicine
Chief Petitioner, Oregon Medical Marijuana Act (1998)
Portland, Oregon

(This information furnished by Richard Bayer, MD.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Compassionate Nurses Support Measure 33
As a Registered Nurse, I am guided by compassion, intelligence
and acceptance in my practice. Many patients have told me that
marijuana relieves terrible symptoms. I believe them and I’m not
alone.
Nurses all across Oregon understand that marijuana is med-
icine. Our patients use marijuana to treat an illness like cancer
or reduce the side-effects of pharmaceuticals. Nurses under-
stand that marijuana is safe. We also believe that patients who
suffer from serious or terminal illness have a right to legal pro-
tection and a secure supply of medicine. That’s why we need
Measure 33.

Measure 33 improves on six years’ experience of The Oregon
Medical Marijuana Act. Today, many program registrants don’t
have a “caregiver” to grow medicine for them. Instead, they rely
on unregulated “black market” growers. Thousands of other
patients are excluded from the registry program because their
doctor refuses to write a cannabis recommendation.
Ballot Measure 33 will:
-allow licensed, state-regulated dispensaries to donate and
sell safe, affordable supplies of cannabis to registered
patients;
-allow Nurse Practitioners and Naturopathic Physicians (in
addition to MD’s and DO’s) to recommend cannabis therapy
for any patient whom they think would benefit;
-increase plant and marijuana possession limits to reason-
able levels (10 plants and one pound);

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
21 | Statewide Measures

-shift the OMMP funding burden from patients by requiring
dispensaries to pay fees to the program. This will offset tax-
payer expenditures.

Measure 33 will continue including cannabis patients into our
nursing, a practice that was begun by The Oregon Medical
Marijuana Act. Measure 33 acknowledges and respects that
anyone who suffers from disease has a right to safely use
cannabis, or any other medicine that helps. As a nurse, I believe
that suffering people should never be victimized by their search
for relief. That’s why I, and most nurses in Oregon will vote yes
on Measure 33. I hope you will too.
Edward Glick, RN
Monmouth, OR
Co-Chief Petitioner, Ballot Measure 33

(This information furnished by Edward Glick, RN.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Patients support Measure 33.

Hello. My name is Jeanelle Bluhm. I have Multiple Sclerosis
(MS), and I use medical marijuana. I support ballot measure 33.

Medical marijuana helps control the muscle spasms common
with MS so I don’t have to take as many prescribed drugs.
Overall, medical marijuana has greatly improved my quality of
life.

Under the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act (OMMA), I was the first
patient in Oregon to receive a permit to legally use medical mari-
juana (registry card #1). I am fortunate because my husband is
my medical marijuana caregiver and he is an excellent gardener,
which means I have a safe and constant supply of medicine.
That means I don’t have to try to find medicine on the “scary
black market.” But there are too many patients that do not
have medicine, and that isn’t right. Patients should not be
forced to risk violence on the black market to obtain the medi-
cine that works best.

The OMMA, passed by Oregonians in 1998, was a great first
step in helping medically needy people. But, it didn’t provide a
way for many patients to have a safe and reliable source of
medicine. This is especially true for patients who have an imme-
diate need for medicine but now must wait months for a garden
and sometimes months to find a caregiver. Plus, some patient’s
gardens are damaged by pests or are burglarized and may not
reach maturity.
Measure 33 is not legalization because patients must have a
debilitating condition and see an attending physician to qualify
for a registry card.
Measure 33 will, when passed by the compassionate people of
Oregon, provide an adequate amount of medicine. The may be
either through growing a garden or through a state regulated
dispensary system that will function like a pharmacy. That
way all patients can have safe and reliable access to medicine.
Please vote YES on Measure 33. Thank you.
Jeanelle Bluhm
Portland, Oregon

(This information furnished by Jeanelle Bluhm.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 33 Arguments
Argument in Favor

had to make it.
Measure 33 will regulate medical marijuana and fix the OMMA.

Don’t let the war on marijuana interfere with choice in

cancer care.

As a medical oncologist (cancer specialist) who has treated
many Oregonians over the years, I know chemotherapy is often
difficult. Uncontrolled vomiting can prevent a person with cancer
from completing the desired chemotherapy plan. I have seen
marijuana (cannabis) work as medicine to control vomiting even
when prescription medicine such as Compazine (prochlorper-
azine) or Zofran (ondansetron) failed. New research suggests
that combining newer prescription anti-vomiting drugs with
marijuana works better than either medicine alone.
Pain management, an important issue in managing cancer, can
be complex because no medicine is 100% effective for every
patient and adverse effects from medicines are common.
Marijuana has pain-relieving potency similar to prescription
codeine. It is remarkable that some persons who do not tolerate
prescription pain medicines can use marijuana as medicine to
achieve adequate pain relief. This gives patients and doctors
another choice to manage pain.
The federal government should reschedule cannabis so that
doctors can prescribe it. But, as the Oregon Medical Marijuana
Act (OMMA) proved in 1998, it is possible to successfully create
exceptions in state laws for persons with debilitating conditions
when marijuana is medically supervised. And, these legal excep-
tions translate into improved pain and symptom management for
thousands of Oregonians.

The original OMMA does not address where a cancer patient
vomiting from chemotherapy or in severe pain might immediately
obtain medical marijuana. Measure 33 allows for dispensaries,
which act like cannabis pharmacies, allowing sick people
immediate access to cannabis. This might make a difference
between success and failure of medical treatment so I urge to
you please vote Yes on Measure 33.
Nancy Crumpacker, MD
Board Certified, Medical Oncology and Internal Medicine
Portland, Oregon

(This information furnished by Nancy Crumpacker, MD.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Patients with cancer deserve safe access to safe effective
medicine.

I am a cancer survivor. I had an operation in which doctors
removed all or part of five organs and two-third of my stomach.
During six months of chemotherapy, I found out if I used med-
ical marijuana, I needed only one-third of the prescribed
dose of pain medicine.
I am now a cardholder under the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act
(OMMA). Unfortunately, I can’t get a steady supply of medical
marijuana because I am too sick to grow it. I have neither a safe
location nor or the considerable financial investment it takes to
grow indoor marijuana. Plus, I am too poor to go to the black
market.
In 1998, Oregonians passed the OMMA. We led the nation by
having a cardholder registration system that works for law
enforcement, the Oregon Department of Human Services, the
medical community, and patients. However, the OMMA didn’t
create a supply of medicine. And the plant and weight limits are
unrealistic. Imagine if aspirin were just made legal, but the law
said I could only possess 7 tablets, and that I couldn’t buy it, I

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
22 | Statewide Measures

• Measure 33 creates state regulated dispensaries where

qualified patients can buy medical marijuana.

• Measure 33 builds upon an existing program; therefore

it does not create new bureaucracy.

• Measure 33 dispensaries will be self-funded by patient

and dispensary fees paid to the Human Services
Department so Measure 33 will not cost taxpayers any
money.

• Dispensaries will be required to keep records for every
gram of marijuana that is grown, sold, or given away by
the dispensaries so that no marijuana ends up on the
black market or in youth circles.

Yes on 33 is a smart, right and compassionate vote. Please join
me and support other cancer survivors by voting Yes on
Measure 33!
Christopher Campbell, cancer survivor

(This information furnished by Christopher Campbell.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Law Enforcement Support for Measure 33

Measure 33 is a win-win situation for all Oregonians as either
taxpayers or medical marijuana patients. In addition to the debil-
itating medical conditions now covered by the law, Measure 33
will allow attending physicians to determine which additional
medical problems will qualify as “debilitating conditions”.

The benefit to taxpayer, who now foots the bill for the Oregon
Health Plan, will be reduced prescription drug costs. Instead of
having to pay for expensive painkillers like Oxycodone and
Vicodin, patients can grow inexpensive medical marijuana.

The current law is of no benefit to the patient diagnosed with
cancer who starts chemotherapy next week but must grow a
garden that can take many months. Measure 33 will provide
non-profit dispensaries that will sell medicine to registered card-
holders at low cost. Indigent patients will receive medicine at no
cost because dispensaries must provide for free 20 percent of
the dollar amount sold to registered cardholders.
Measure 33 will require Law Enforcement to check to first see if
an address is registered with the Oregon Medical Marijuana
Program (OMMP) before serving a search warrant for marijuana.
This will contribute to the safety of officers as well as save a lot
of valuable law enforcement resources. Measure 33 will help
the criminal justice system by focusing resources on serious
crimes instead of patients trying to acquire their medical
marijuana.
In addition, registered OMMP patients cannot be discriminated
against or terminated from employment simply for registering
with OMMP.
Measure 33 is not “legalization in disguise”. Only patients
who have been qualified by an attending physician can register
as a patient.
If you or a loved one were sick, wouldn’t you want safe reliable
access to a medicine that helps? Medical marijuana should be
available through a safe regulated system. Compassionate care
and available medicine is what Oregon is all about. Please vote
Yes on Measure 33.
Don DuPay
Former Portland Police Detective

continued ➔

Measure 33 Arguments

(This information furnished by Don DuPay.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Why does Measure 33 increase possession limits on
medicine?
Because patients need enough medicine to relieve suffering!
Current limits on possession of medical marijuana and plants are
so restrictive that virtually every qualified Oregon patient goes
without medicine at some point. A law that forces patients to run
out of medicine needs an amendment like Measure 33.
Measure 33 sets reasonable limits: 10 plants and 1 pound of
medical marijuana.
The current law only allows patients to possess one ounce away
from the garden and once ounce per mature plant at the garden.
This cumbersome definition means a patient can only possess
three ounces at home and one ounce when traveling.
Patients use a dosage range of medical marijuana between two
grams and two ounces per week. One pound or sixteen ounces
of medical marijuana is a reasonable limit to prevent legitimate
patients from arrest when growing medicine indoors under artifi-
cial lights that allow multiple harvests per year.
The six-pound exemption Measure 33 creates would be for
patients who harvest only one crop per year, as a more eco-
nomical outdoor garden might. These patients must possess
the entire twelve-month supply of medicine at the annual harvest
and provide additional registration information to the Oregon
Department of Human Services.
The federal government provides six pounds or more of
medical marijuana each year to select patients. Unfortunately,
the federal government closed this “Investigational New Drug
(IND) Program for marijuana” to any new patients over ten years
ago so only a few remaining patients survive. But, the ongoing
federal IND program still provides the best information on yearly
quantities of medical marijuana patients often need.
Measure 33 is not legalization. After measure 33, it will still be
a class A felony to sell marijuana to anyone who is not a regis-
tered medical marijuana patient.
Measure 33 creates regulated dispensaries that will act like
pharmacies and decrease patients’ need to possess more
than small quantities of medicine.

(This information furnished by John Sajo, A Life with Dignity Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

OREGON LAWYERS SUPPORT MEASURE 33

We are Oregon Lawyers who have defended individual med-

ical marijuana patients and their caregivers who have been
accused of wrongdoing by the government both prior to, and
since passage of the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act (OMMA) in
1998. The OMMA was passed in an effort to protect legitimate
patients who use medical marijuana to treat debilitating medical
conditions from arrest, prosecution and forfeiture. The amend-
ments to the OMMA proposed in this initiative are intended to
further refine and clarify the rules regarding the use of medical
marijuana by fostering positive doctor-patient relationships,
reducing the likelihood that a person with a debilitating medical

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
23 | Statewide Measures

condition will be prosecuted for the legitimate use of medical
marijuana, developing a state licensing system for the regular
and legal dispensing of medical marijuana to patients and
appointing an oversight commission with the authority to regu-
larly review the impacts of the OMMA and make recommen-
dations to the legislature if, and when, changes need to be
made to the OMMA.

Therefore we urge you to vote YES ON MEASURE 33 and
keep the issue of medical marijuana in the doctor’s office and
out of the courtroom.

Leland R. Berger, Portland
Claudia Browne, Grants Pass

David T. McDonald, Portland
Brian Michaels, Eugene

Richard A. Cremer, Roseburg

John Henry Hingson III,
Oregon City

Shaun S. McCrea, Eugene

John W. Neidig, Attorney at
Law, Portland

Michael E. Rose, Portland

Phil Studenberg, Attorney at
Law, Klamath Falls

(This information furnished by Leland R. Berger.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

It’s time to stop arresting and prosecuting patients.
In 1998, Oregonians passed the first Oregon Medical Marijuana
Act, but legitimate patients are still being arrested and prose-
cuted for trying to grow their own medical marijuana. This
creates enormous emotional and physical stress, especially to
those already ill. Measure 33 will fix problems with the current
law that are causing these unnecessary arrests of patients.
On September 12, 2003, a Washington County jury found Scott
Gregorson “not guilty.” He had been charged with manufacturing
a controlled substance (a felony) after police found three small
marijuana plants and eight scrawny, almost dead, cuttings
(including one that turned out to be a shallot) in his home during
a September 2001 raid. The law currently allows a patient to
have only seven plants.

The whole investigation should have been stopped, but the
Department of Human Services, Oregon Medical Marijuana
Program (OMMP) made a mistake. When police called to verify
that Mr. Gregorson was a patient, the OMMP failed to correctly
verify he was a registered medical marijuana patient.
After a three-day trial (where taxpayers paid for the judge, the
prosecutor, the police witnesses, the expert defense witness, the
court employees, etc…), the jury concluded that the scrawny
cuttings were not plants.
When Measure 33 becomes law, patients like Scott Gregorson
will not have to try growing medical marijuana at home. He and
thousands of other patients who do not have a green thumb will
be able to go buy their medicine at state-regulated dispen-
saries that will operate as pharmacies for medical
marijuana. Taxpayers will save the expense of arresting and
prosecuting patients. A yes vote on Measure 33 will save
taxpayers money.
Measure 33 creates a state-regulated supply of medical mari-
juana, which will increase patient access to medicine. Please
vote Yes on Measure 33.

John Sajo
Chief-Petitioner, Measure 33
Dillard, Oregon

continued ➔

Measure 33 Arguments

(This information furnished by John Sajo, A Life with Dignity Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
24 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Opposition

Voters are not convinced of the medicinal values of mari-
juana. The federal government protects citizens from unsafe,
ineffective substances sold as “medicines”. The FDA has not
approved marijuana as safe.

• We rarely hear about superior alternative medicines for

treatment of symptoms alleged to be treatable by Crude
Marijuana.

• According to Bill Walluks, Center for Effective Drug Abuse

Research & Statistics, “from 1999 to 2001, seven of the
nine medical marijuana states had a monthly marijuana use
rate percentage change for 18-25 year olds that was above
the national percentage change.” Monthly marijuana use by
18-25 year olds in Oregon rose by 30% in that time span,
in contrast to a national increase of only 3%.

• The 10 plants plus 1 pound allowable marijuana equate to a

total of 12,936 marijuana cigarettes (joints). This permitted
number of joints would be equivalent to smoking 1 1/2
joints every hour of every day in the year.

• What costs, including police protection, are involved for the

State to license and regulate dispensaries? Will dispen-
saries become victims of thefts, burglaries and robberies?

• Will dispensaries be permitted on properties adjacent to

schools or in areas frequented by young people?

According to Dr. Robert DuPont, President, Institute for Behavior
and Health and first Director of the National Institute on Drug
Abuse (NIDA) the governments principal agency researching
marijuana, “more people need to see ‘medical marijuana’ for
what it is: a cynical fraud and a cruel hoax. It is not about
medicine; it is about the political exploitation of the public’s
compassion for suffering sick people. Legitimizing smoked mari-
juana as a “medicine” is a serious threat to the health and safety
of all Americans.”

Oregon has the fifth highest monthly marijuana use rate among
states in the Nation, according to the Federal Government.
Defeat this initiative to prevent further drug abuse and associ-
ated problems. Enough is enough!! VOTE NO on any legalization
of Marijuana.

(This information furnished by Shirley Morgan, Oregon Against Legalization
of Marijuana.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The Oregon Medical Association
Urges a NO vote on Measure 33

The Oregon Medical Association (OMA) representing 7,200
physicians urges voters to vote NO on Measure 33 because it is
first a thinly disguised effort to legalize the use of marijuana
without any medically scientific justification. It is bad public
health policy because:

• The British Lung Foundation reports smoking three mari-
juana joints are as bad for your lungs as twenty tobacco
cigarettes.

• The National Institutes of Health reports marijuana contains
fifty percent to seventy percent more cancerous substances
than tobacco smoke.

• The British Medical Journal reports that the medical litera-
ture has shown an association between marijuana smoking
and illnesses such as depression, schizophrenia, and

continued ➔

Measure 33 Arguments

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

I want Oregonians to know the truth about our medical mari-
juana program and how Measure 33 puts patients in harms way!
The Oregon Medical Marijuana Act, OMMA, is the best medical
marijuana program in the United States. Patients can eat.
Patients with Glaucoma have kept their sight. OMMA has meant
a better quality of life for both patients and their families.

At first, this program had little help. For the patient that assigned
a caring compassionate caregiver, the patient got the help and
medicine they needed. Unfortunately, some patients assigned
dishonest caregivers that assumed the garden was theirs.
Patients were told how much medicine they could have and in
some cases at what price. If Measure 33 was to pass, these
dishonest practices would become legal.
Measure 33 would change our current “patient based” program
to allow non-patients to own and sell marijuana to patients. Law
officers would no longer be able to protect OMMA and patients.
Today’s illegal black-market would become tomorrows dispen-
saries and be in control of our medical marijuana.

How dare Measure 33 put personal agendas, ahead of the
welfare of Oregon’s patients endanger our program. This is my
medicine! I’ve spent years helping with the development of
Oregon’s medical marijuana program. No one has the right to
jeopardize our program.
The spirit of, “patients helping each other” has empowered
many to do extraordinary thing, including reaching beyond their
own sickness to help others. Measure 33 would destroy the
heart of OMMA.
Patients grow their medicine and medicate for their needs.
We’ve learned how to cut marijuana plant clones for garden
stock, and how to network with other registered cardholders.
Caregivers can assist patients, but the plants and medicine
always belong to the patients. OMMA has NO BUYING and
NO SELLING of marijuana in Oregon.
My goodness, why couldn’t they have written a legalization bill
that said what it really was, so Oregonians could vote.
Vote No on Measure 33!

God Bless

(This information furnished by Stormy Ray, Chief Petitioner for Measure 67
that became OMMA.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

suicidal ideation.

Ballot Measure 33 is bad public policy because it creates new
government bureaucracies such as:

• The Oregon Department of Health and Human Services to

conduct medical research.

• A new Government Commission of Marijuana.

• A new government indigent program to pay for marijuana to
indigent patients and a new government licensing program.

• In some instances requires County Health Departments to

dispense marijuana.

Ballot Measure 33 is a thinly disguised attempt to legalize
marijuana because FDA approved medications with the very
substance (THC) that is in marijuana already is available to
patients. In addition, the measure allows “caregivers” to sell
marijuana to “patients”. In expanding the use of marijuana for
new unspecified purposes, it allows “patients” to possess up to
six pounds of marijuana.
The Oregon Medical Association believes the real purpose of
Measure 33 is to legalize marijuana under the medically unsub-
stantiated guise of medical need.

OMA urges you to vote NO on Measure 33

John C. Moorhead, M.D.
President
Oregon Medical Association

(This information furnished by John C. Moorhead, M.D., President, Oregon
Medical Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

LIBERTARIANS SAY

VOTE NO ON MEASURE 33

The Libertarian Party of Oregon reluctantly urges a NO vote on
measure 33. For all the good intentions the measure represents
and for all the goals it tries to achieve, Measure 33 falls short of
bringing true drug policy reform to Oregon.

There are many good and necessary elements of measure 33
that need to be dealt with, most importantly adding Naturopaths
and Nurse Practitioners to the list of health care professionals
allowed to recommend cannabis to their patients. But Measure
33 puts government where it doesn’t belong, between the health
care professional and their patients.

Measure 33’s requirement that the medical records of individual
patients be kept and maintained is alone enough to reject this
measure. It is a violation of patient privacy and personal choice -
no place for government to tread.

The Libertarian Party opposes any government program forcing
Oregonians to register with the State to gain “special privileges,”
particularly those that are not applied to all Oregonians equally -
whether they are using cannabis for medicinal reasons or not.

The Libertarian Party of Oregon urges Oregonians to elect
Libertarians to office so that drug policies can be enacted which
will protect society, reduce drug abuse and protect the individual
rights of all Oregonians as provided for in our Constitution.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE 33

www.lporegon.org
1-800-829-1992

(This information furnished by Richard P. Burke, Executive Director,
Libertarian Party of Oregon.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
25 | Statewide Measures

Measure 34

Proposed by initiative petition to be voted on at the General
Election, November 2, 2004.

Ballot Title34

REQUIRES BALANCING TIMBER PRODUCTION, RESOURCE
CONSERVATION/PRESERVATION IN MANAGING STATE
FORESTS; SPECIFICALLY ADDRESSES TWO FORESTS
RESULT OF “YES” VOTE: “Yes” vote requires managing state
forests balancing, as equally beneficial, conservation/preserva-
tion and timber production; manages Tillamook, Clatsop forests
half for restoration, half for production.
RESULT OF “NO” VOTE: “No” vote retains current law allowing
mixed use state forest management; rejects: requiring
management that values conservation and production equally,
separately managing Tillamook, Clatsop Forests.
SUMMARY: Current law directs that Board of Forestry manage
all state forests to maximize “permanent value” (defined by
board) through mixed use, including timber sales, mining,
protecting, conserving, utilizing forests. Measure requires man-
agement defining “permanent value” as balancing sustainable
timber production with water, wildlife, watershed protection,
recreation, forest restoration, considering resource conservation
equally beneficial to timber production. Manages Tillamook,
Clatsop Forests half for forest restoration, prioritizing drinking
water, habitat, fish protection; half for sustainable timber produc-
tion, with restoration management steps recommended by
restoration science team. Addresses using timber revenues for
common School Fund, forest restoration management (board
providing additional funding as needed); continues current local
school funding levels. Measure declares it replaces any other
management plan for Clatsop, Tillamook Forests adopted in
2004 election. Other provisions.
ESTIMATE OF FINANCIAL IMPACT:
With respect to the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests:
The measure is estimated to increase state expenditures by $1.5
million to $6.3 million per year;
The measure is estimated to decrease state revenue by $4.2
million to $10.3 million per year;
The measure is estimated to require approximately $2 million of
one-time state expenditures;
The measure is estimated to decrease revenues for local
governments by $17.2 million to $19.4 million per year; and
There is no financial effect on local government expenditures.
The impact of the measure on other state forests cannot be
determined.

Text of Measure

Whereas, individuals and businesses are attracted to Oregon

because of its natural beauty and quality of life; and,

Whereas, the vast majority of the Tillamook and Clatsop State

Forests will be logged unless Oregon citizens act to protect
them; and, 

Whereas, voters in 1948 approved financing to rehabilitate the

Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests and Oregonians from all
walks of life, including generations of Oregon school children,
planted 72 million trees; and,

Whereas, the restoration of the Tillamook and Clatsop State

Forests after the Tillamook Burn is an Oregon success story that
we and future generations will take pride in; and, 

Whereas, a forest management plan developed by a team of

independent scientists must be favored over the current

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
26 | Statewide Measures

untested and controversial management plan. 

Whereas, the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests are the
property and heritage of all Oregonians and Oregonians favor
balance between timber harvests and environmental protection;
and,

Whereas, a portion of the revenue derived from all timber

harvests in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests should be
dedicated to the Common School Fund to benefit all Oregon
schools and families; and, 

Whereas, the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests provide
clean, abundant drinking water for hundreds of thousands of
Oregon’s citizens; and,

Whereas, there must be a preference for sustainable, highly

skill, family wage jobs for workers in Oregon’s forests; and,

Whereas, the restoration of native forests is our legacy to

future Oregonians; and, 

Whereas, the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests are the

largest contiguous unprotected temperate rainforest in the lower
48 states; and,

Whereas, the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests provide a
wide range of high quality recreational opportunities including,
but not limited to hiking, bird watching, fishing, biking, camping,
kayaking, hunting, archery, muzzle loading, and motorized
recreation; and, 

Whereas, the streams and rivers of the Tillamook and Clatsop
State Forests are one of the best strongholds for wild salmon in
the Pacific Northwest; and,

Whereas, an abundance of fish, wildlife, recreational

opportunities and non-timber forest products in the Tillamook
and Clatsop State Forests support the local and state
economies; and,

Whereas, balanced management of the Tillamook and Clatsop
State Forests will help prevent forest fires and Swiss needle cast
disease through re-establishment of the native forest tree
species and by limiting overcrowding through restorative
thinning. 

NOW THEREFORE BE IT ENACTED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE
STATE OF OREGON:

SECTION 1. PRODUCING THE GREATEST PERMANENT

VALUE FROM OREGON’S STATE FORESTS

The Oregon Department of Forestry, the Oregon Board of
Forestry and the State Forester while managing and making
management decisions in order to secure the greatest
permanent value for the State of Oregon from its Board of
Forestry Lands shall:

(a) Balance the protection of drinking water, conservation of

wildlife and salmon habitat, expansion and protection of
recreational opportunities, restoration of native forests, and
watershed preservation with sustainable timber harvests to
provide the greatest economic, social, environmental, and health
benefits to the people of the State of Oregon.

(b) Consider the conservation of land for drinking water,

recreation, and fish and wildlife habitat to be as beneficial to the
state as timber harvests.

SECTION 2. BALANCING THE MANAGEMENT OF THE

TILLAMOOK AND CLATSOP STATE FORESTS.

The Oregon Department of Forestry, the Oregon Board of

Forestry and the State Forester following the advice of the
Independent Restoration Science Team, as closely as
practicable, shall in compliance with Section One of this Act:

(a) Manage the Board of Forestry Lands in the Tillamook and
Clatsop State Forests to facilitate the permanent restoration of a
native old growth forest on 50 percent of those lands over time.
The priority for management shall be the protection of current
and future drinking water supplies and critical fish and wildlife
habitat. Thinning of trees and other forest management of this

continued ➔

Measure 34

area must be consistent with the goal of restoring a native old
growth forest.

(b) Manage the remaining 50 percent of the Board of Forestry
Lands in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests with the goal
of sustainable timber and revenue production for the state,
counties, and schools where the forests reside, creation of family
wage jobs, and re-establishing forest tree species ecologically
and genetically adapted to those areas. The management
regime used shall not be less protective of clean drinking water,
recreational opportunities, fish and wildlife habitat than the
Northwest Oregon State Forests Management Plan.

(c) Manage the forests to prevent catastrophic damage from
fires, floods, erosion, severe Swiss Needle Cast disease, forest
pathogens and pests.

SECTION 3. SELECTION AND DUTIES OF THE

INDEPENDENT SCIENCE TEAM

An Independent Restoration Science Team shall make

management recommendations to the Oregon Board of Forestry,
the Oregon Department of Forestry and the State Forester.

(a) The Selection Committee for the Independent Restoration
Science Team shall be solely composed of the Biology Depart-
ment Chairperson from Portland State University, Oregon State
University and the University of Oregon. If the Departmental
Chair is unavailable he or she may designate a substitute profes-
sor from their respective department to serve on the Selection
Committee. The Selection Committee will choose members of
the Independent Restoration Science Team based on the individ-
ual’s expertise in the scientific fields necessary to achieve the
goal of this Act. Members will be selected through a majority
vote of the Selection Committee. The Independent Restoration
Science Team shall have at least 9 and no more than 13 mem-
bers. The team shall have expertise in at least 9 of the following;
restorative forestry, wildlife biology, silvicultural science, soil
science, geology, limnology, hydrology, ecological restoration,
forest ecology, salmon biology, forest planning, environmental
management, geographic information systems and any other
appropriate scientific field. 

(b) The Selection Committee shall be reimbursed for reason-

able expenses related to the duties specified by this Act.

(c) The Selection Committee shall select the Independent

Restoration Science Team within six months after the passage of
this Act. 

(d) The Independent Restoration Science Team’s goal shall be
to guide the permanent restoration of a native old growth forest
on 50 % of the Board of Forestry Lands in the Tillamook and
Clatsop State Forests over time, using the best available science.
The Independent Restorative Science Team will review and
recommend changes to the current management plan to meet
the 50 % restoration goal. The Independent Restorative Science
Team shall determine those areas best suited for the permanent
restoration of a native old growth forest based on the following
standards, protection of areas that contain current or potential
drinking water sources, protection of critical fish and wildlife
habitat, protection of areas of important native biodiversity,
protection of current or potential forest recreational opportunities
that are consistent with restoring or protecting Oregon forest
structure, protection or creation of corridors for wildlife 
movement, protection of groups of trees 70 years and older,
protection of current and future hunting and fishing opportuni-
ties, protection of threatened and endangered species habitat,
protection of cultural heritage, protection of natural wetlands,
protection for areas with high landslide risks, especially where
they occur upstream of productive spawning and rearing habitat
for anadromous fish, protection of riparian corridors to return
this habitat to a viable functioning ecosystem, protection of
areas with the lowest existing and abandoned road densities,
and any other criteria that does not directly conflict with these
listed standards or with the goal of this Act. 

(e) The Independent Restoration Science Team will submit

their recommendations for changes to the current management
plan for the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests to the Oregon
Board of Forestry within two years after the passage of this Act.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
27 | Statewide Measures

The Oregon Board of Forestry shall explain in a written report
and at public hearings how it intends to implement the
recommended changes to the current management plan for the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests and give the rationale for
any departures from those recommendations.

(f) The Oregon Board of Forestry will adopt a new balanced

forest management plan for the Tillamook and Clatsop State
Forests within three years of the passage of this Act. Review of
the restoration area will be in 20-year intervals. Review shall be
only to determine if the standards of restoration are being met.
Changes in the management of the restoration area are allowed
if necessary to meet the goal of this Act.

(g) The Oregon Department of Forestry shall monitor and

evaluate the ongoing restoration work. Restoration work that
conflicts with the standards for the selection of areas to be
restored must be modified or improved to reduce or eliminate
conflicts between the standards. 

(h) Members of the Independent Restoration Science Team

shall be compensated for their services and are eligible for
reimbursement of travel and other reasonable expenses related
to their duties under this Act.

(i) The Oregon Department of Forestry, the Oregon Board of

Forestry and the State Forester shall provide administrative
support and services to assist the Independent Restoration
Science Team.

(j) The Independent Restoration Science Team’s service shall
end after it produces the recommendations required by this Act.
SECTION 4. FUNDING FOR SCHOOLS, RESTORATION AND

RELATED PROGRAMS.

(a) The initial management of the restoration area and the

modification of the current management plan for the Tillamook
and Clatsop State Forests will be funded with 10% of the timber
revenues over 10 years from the Board of Forestry Lands in the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests. An equivalent amount of
revenue will be provided from timber revenue collected by the
State Department of Forestry if the affected counties do not
agree to the change in revenue distribution. This dedicated
initial funding will pay for the development of an apprenticeship
program for restorative forestry, road decommissioning, tree
thinning, underbrush clearing, the storm-proofing of existing
roads and railroad grades, the execution and monitoring of the
restoration and any other work that is required to meet the goal
of this Act. The Oregon Board of Forestry shall provide
additional and continuing funding as needed to accomplish the
goal of this Act in a timely manner.

(b) The Oregon Common School Fund shall receive 5% of all

timber receipts from the Board of Forestry Lands in the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests. The local public school
districts shall not receive less funding than the revenue
represented in their 2002/03-budget period from timber harvests
in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests. 

SECTION 5. QUALITY JOBS, LIVING WAGES AND SKILLED

LABOR

(a) After the adoption of the new state forests management

plan for the Board of Forestry Lands in the Tillamook and
Clatsop State Forests, prospective bidders for restoration
forestry work must document that they are an active participant
in a registered apprenticeship program in restorative forestry to
be considered a responsive bidder. Budgets for work in the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests shall include
apprenticeship-training set-asides.

(b) After the adoption of the new state forests management
plan, any restoration work or timber harvests on the Board of
Forestry Lands in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests shall
be considered a public work. All timber sales and restoration
forestry work in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests shall
pay a prevailing rate of wage. If the current occupations,
descriptions of scope of work, or trade classifications are
inadequate the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries
Commissioner shall make the appropriate changes or additions
and determine the appropriate prevailing rate of wage.

continued ➔

Measure 34

(c) The State Forester, Oregon Board of Forestry and the

Oregon Department of Forestry shall develop and implement
programs to encourage bidding by and the awarding of
contracts to local contractors for restoration projects on the
Board of Forestry Lands in the Tillamook and Clatsop State
Forests. Cost effective approaches including, but not limited to
best value contracts with preference for local hiring and
employer participation in a state approved apprenticeship
training program, and the bundling of multiple restoration
projects over longer periods of time with a preference for highly
skilled labor shall be developed and implemented. 

SECTION 6. FULL IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ACT
(a) This Act supercedes any existing law that may be

construed to reduce or restrict the full implementation of this
Act, and this Act shall be construed so as to best implement the
intent of this Act.

SECTION 7. RETENTION IF ANY PORTION VOIDED
(a) If any portion of this Act is invalidated for any reason, all

remaining portions of this Act shall remain in place and shall be
given full force and effect.

SECTION 8. SUPREMECY OF THIS ACT
(a) The management plan created by this Act for the Tillamook
and Clatsop State Forests shall replace any other Act creating a
management plan for the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests
passed by voters in the 2004 General Election.

SECTION 9. COURT REVIEW SHALL BE EXPEDITED
(a) If any person brings a state court challenge to any portion
of this Act, or challenges passage of this Act, asserting that the
Act or any portion of the Act violates the Oregon Constitution or
the United States Constitution, or asserting any other legal
challenge to passage or implementation or this Act, that action
shall be filed in Marion County Circuit Court and shall be given
expedited attention by the Court; the decision of the Circuit
Court shall be subject to direct review by the Oregon Supreme
Court, which shall give expedited attention to such appeal.

SECTION 10. CAPTIONS
(a) The section captions used in this Act do not become part

of the statutory law of this state.

SECTION 11. ACT TAKES EFFECT ON PASSAGE.
(a) This Act takes effect on its passage.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
28 | Statewide Measures

Explanatory Statement

Current law directs the State Board of Forestry to manage

state forestlands to secure the “greatest permanent value”
(defined by the board) of the lands to the state. The board is
given authority to protect, manage, utilize and conserve forest-
lands. The board may sell forest products from the lands as well
as seek the protection of fish and wildlife, recreation and water
supply. The statutes provide no ranking or preference for one
use over another.

The measure requires management of state forests by

defining “permanent value” as a balance between sustainable
timber production and water, wildlife, watershed protection,
recreation, and forest restoration to provide the greatest
economic, social, environmental and health benefits to the
people of this state. 

Measure 34 requires the Board to manage the Tillamook and

Clatsop State Forests specifically for the purpose of restoring
native old growth forests in half of those two forests. The other
half would be managed for sustainable timber and revenue
production in a way that is at least as protective as what is
required under the current State Forest Management Plan.
An Independent Restoration Science Team is created to

review and recommend necessary changes to the current forest
plan to comply with the standards in the measure. Team mem-
bers will be selected by the chairs of the biology departments at
Oregon’s three largest universities. The team must determine the
areas best suited for permanent restoration of native old growth
forest. The team shall submit its recommendations to the board,
which may reject them after a public hearing. The measure
requires the board to adopt a new forest plan for the Tillamook
and Clatsop State Forests, with a periodic review to ensure that
restoration standards are being met. 

Current law distributes revenues derived from the timber
harvest in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests under a
formula. If the counties agree to modification of the formula,
10 percent of the revenue over 10 years will be used to pay for
forest management of the restoration area and for amendment
of the forest plan. If the counties do not agree, the State
Forestry Department will provide management funds from other
state timber revenue. 

Public schools in the affected counties shall not receive less

revenue than received in 2002-2003 because of any formula
modification. The measure directs an additional five percent of
the timber harvest revenue from the Tillamook and Clatsop State
Forests to the Common School Fund. 

The measure requires an apprenticeship program in

restorative forestry, and requires bidders for restoration forestry
work to participate in such apprenticeship programs. The
measure encourages the Department of Forestry to support
bidding by and contracts awarded to local contractors.
Restoration work and timber harvesting on the Tillamook and
Clatsop State Forests will be considered a public work requiring
payment of prevailing wages. 

Any challenge to passage or implementation of the measure

shall be given expedited attention by the courts with appeal
directly to the Supreme Court.

Committee Members:
Mari Anne Gest
Lyndon Ruhnke
Commissioner Tim Josi *
Ray Wilkeson *
Kathleen Beaufait
*Member dissents (does not concur with explanatory statement)

Appointed by:
Chief Petitioners
Chief Petitioners
Secretary of State
Secretary of State
Members of the Committee

(This committee was appointed to provide an impartial explanation of the
ballot measure pursuant to ORS 251.215.)

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments
Argument in Favor

A Legacy for Our Children

Tillamook; A special place
The Tillamook holds a special place in our hearts. It belongs to
all Oregonians. After a series of logging caused fires in the
1930’s, Oregonians voted in a statewide election, to replant the
Tillamook with tax dollars. 40 plus years ago, thousands of
Oregonians and school children planted 72 million trees in the
Tillamook. Governor Tom McCall dedicated the Tillamook as a
“state forest” in 1973. Now that the forests have grown up,
there is a debate about whether this land should be logged or
preserved.
Require Balance
As a mother, a grandmother and former Governor of Oregon I
hope that Oregonians will choose a balanced approach to
management of our state forests. We can protect our natural
resources for generations to come while also providing jobs and
dollars for local economies through timber production.
Greatest Permanent Value
Current law requires the Tillamook and Clatsop State forests
to be managed for the Greatest Permanent Value of the citizens
of this state. That means for you, me, our children, and their
children. Decisions concerning the Tillamook need to be made
with both economic and environmental concerns in mind.
That is why I am supporting Measure 34.
Will the forests be “locked up”? No, measure 34 keeps the
forests open for the benefit of all Oregonians.
What about forest fires? Measure 34 manages the forests to
protect against wildfires across the entire forestland. We
already know that old growth forests used for recreational pur-
poses provide the lowest fire threat level compared to actively
harvested forestland.
Measure 34 is a balanced plan – that puts logging on an equal
footing with clean water and protecting our fish and wildlife, for
today and tomorrow.
Protect our jobs today and into the future while leaving our
children a legacy we can be proud of.
Vote Yes on 34!

Governor Barbara Roberts

(This information furnished by Governor Barbara Roberts.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Yes on 34 – Good for Schools

• Measure 34 provides $6.5 million more for local schools in
the 4 affected counties of the Tillamook and Clatsop State
Forests than they received last year.

• Measure 34 requires additional revenue for all public

schools. Requires annual deposits of timber revenue from
OUR State Forests to the Common School Fund.

• Measure 34 makes Oregon Forests work for YOU…rather
than just benefiting special interest groups such as a few
timber corporations.

• Measure 34 requires managing our forests equally between
timber production and conservation - 50 -50. Do the math -
It is balanced! This will bring in a sustainable amount of
revenue from timber for the schools and assure that Oregon
remains attractive as a state to new business and workers

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
29 | Statewide Measures

who help drive our economy.

• Oregon schools receive 70% of their funds from State

Income tax dollars. Measure 34 recognizes that “livability
and quality of life” are key components of Oregon’s future
economic growth. Recreation and tourism are one of the
fastest growing sectors of the Oregon economy bringing in
millions for Oregon’s schools.

It’s time to make our State Forests work for us!

We have reviewed the ballot measure and have determined that
the Tillamook measure which requires “balance” between timber
production and protection of water, fish and wildlife habitat and
recreation in the Tillamook and Clatsop State forests is in the
long-term benefit of Oregon Schools.

Vote Yes on 34 – Good for Schools

Submitted by Oregon School Employees Association which
represents thousands of education workers across the state.

(This information furnished by Ed Edwards, Oregon School Employees
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Washington County benefits from our quality of life

By Dick Schouten

Washington County Commissioner

Vote Yes on 34, Protecting Oregon’s livability means protect-
ing our economic health.
Washington County’s economy depends on our quality of life
to attract and retain businesses and households to our
region. The Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests are critically
important to residents in Northwest Oregon for drinking water,
outdoor recreation and fish and wildlife habitat. Many of our cur-
rent residents were drawn here because of the abundance of
natural amenities in Northwest Oregon. Balancing protection of
these amenities with timber harvest on OUR state forests
not only makes good sense, but also makes long term eco-
nomic sense. 
Vote Yes on 34, Protecting our water source means protect-
ing our economy.
Over time, the most important product produced in the
Tillamook and Clatsop forests will not be timber--it will be
clean drinking water. Oregon’s high-tech industry, located not
far from these forests is a major consumer of water and will be a
key sector of the Oregon economy far into the future. Over
250,000 residents of Washington County get their drinking
water from watersheds in the Tillamook and Clatsop State
Forests and that number is expected to double in less than
50 years. Balancing watershed protection with timber harvests
in OUR state forests makes economic sense.
Vote Yes on 34, Balancing conservation and timber produc-
tion protects our economy.
Tourism and recreation are the fastest growing economic
sectors in Oregon. While logging remains an important part of
our economy, employment in that sector continues to decline
while wages and employment in the recreation and tourism
industries continue to increase. Protecting the growth areas of
our economy and creating new family wage jobs in the wood
products industry and restoration forestry is an approach all
Oregonians can support.

Please join me in voting YES on Measure 34 

Measure 34 is good for the environment, good for the

economy and good for schools!

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

(This information furnished by Dick Schouten, Washington County Board
of Commissioner, District 1.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

State forests should not be managed in back rooms behind

closed doors by special interests.

Vote Yes on 34

After years of public testimony – and even a vote that failed
in the Oregon Legislature to increase timber harvesting in
our State Forests, State Forester Marvin Brown made a deci-
sion to increase clear-cutting by over 50% in the Tillamook
and Clatsop State Forests.
When asked on April 8, 2004 by a sub-committee of the
Emergency Board of the Legislature why the Oregon Department
of Forestry (ODF) was increasing clear-cuts after an agreement
had been reached on timber harvests levels, Brown said
(according to The Oregonian on April 10, 2004) that he was try-
ing only to satisfy the Legislature’s demand for more state
logging revenue –clearly a false statement.

According to The Oregonian article, the State Forester met with
former Rep. Lane Shetterly, a Republican from Dallas and
sponsor of the unsuccessful bill to boost state forest logging
and Ray Wilkeson a lobbyist for the timber industry to discuss
increasing the cut in the Tillamook.
Senator Joan Dukes, from Astoria, said that Brown had not
discussed the added logging with all sides. Dukes: “I don’t
know at this point who you are going to cut the next side
deal with, and that scares me.” (April 8th Legislative hearing
tapes of General Government subcommittee)
Dukes continued according to The Oregonian article; “I don’t
know how you (ODF) manage land that a lot of people have an
interest in without having everybody involved in the discussion.
A lot of people were left in the dark.”

Measure 34 is a balanced and scientifically supported approach
to managing OUR State Forests. The law states that State
Forests are to be managed for the “Greatest Permanent Value”
of the State of Oregon, not by 3 people in a back room who
make money off the forests.

Support the Public Debate
Say No to Back Room Deals

Yes on 34

(This information furnished by Mari Anne Gest, Oregonians for a Balanced
Tillamook.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon Business Needs Measure 34

By Steven McGeady

Today’s Oregon economy depends as much on high-tech
jobs as it does on forestry jobs. Clean water, forests, and
recreational opportunities create economic opportunity in
Oregon. As an executive at Intel, Tektronix, and other high-tech
companies for more than 20 years, I have recruited over 500
engineers, scientists, and businesspeople to Oregon. Our
biggest selling point is livability and quality of life. We attract

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
30 | Statewide Measures

and retain these entrepreneurs, businesses, and employees
because Oregon balances the needs of its historical economy
with those of new industries.

The Tillamook Forest is the source of the

Silicon Forest’s Clean Water

While Portland gets its drinking water from Bull Run,
Washington, Tillamook, and Clatsop Counties get theirs from the
Tillamook forest. Nothing is more important to the business
climate than clean, plentiful water, but the current plan to
log 85% of the Tillamook puts that water at risk. High-tech
manufacturing depends on water as much as on science. The
current plan for clear-cutting the Tillamook delivers nothing
to Oregon’s technology businesses, and a landscape of
stumps and slash encourages current and potential employ-
ees to look elsewhere.

The Tillamook Belongs to ALL Oregonians – 

Now and For the Future

After the Tillamook Burn and the subsequent salvage logging,
Oregonians came together to restore the devastated landscape.
Hundreds of schoolchildren planted trees in the bare hills, and
today that forest supports millions of dollars in family-wage jobs
in recreation and tourism as well as forestry. Measure 34 sends
the message that we value both jobs and the natural beauty
found in our backyard, we want to Balance timber needs
with all others. A balanced approach that harvests what we
need today while preserving our future is the only plan that will
ensure that there are trees and streams and wildlife and water
for our children and grandchildren to use.

For Business and for our Children

Vote Yes on Measure 34

Sincerely,
Steven McGeady

(This information furnished by Steven McGeady.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Dear Oregon Voters:
I am writing to let you know about the benefits of Ballot Measure
34 - the Tillamook 50/50 initiative. The initiative language is
limited to state-owned forest lands totaling less than 3% of the
forest land in Oregon.
As a former gubernatorial advisor on workforce issues, the
Tillamook 50/50 initiative requires new apprenticeship training
programs in restoration forestry for the Tillamook and Clatsop
State Forests. For every $1 invested per year in apprenticeship
by government, a study shows that apprentices pay back an
average of $20.60 in State and Federal income taxes. It is my
belief that the Tillamook 50/50 plan is good for Oregon’s
economy. By investing in our workforce, the return on the
dollar is significant for our schools, government programs
and our state’s economy.
M e a s u re 34 also re q u i res any restoration work or timber harvests
on the Board of Forestry Lands in the Tillamook and Clatsop
State Forests to pay a prevailing wage rate. The Bureau of Labor
and Industries would determine the appropriate prevailing wage
rate. In addition, Measure 34 directs the Oregon Department of
Forestry to encourage bidding by and the awarding of contracts
to local contractors for forest restoration programs. For rural
Northwest Oregonians this is an extremely important building
block to create stable family-wage jobs.
After studying Measure 34, I am confident it will help retain

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

and create long-term jobs in the wood products industry and
help spur economic growth in Oregon. The Tillamook 50/50
plan provides the proper balance between protection of water
quality, fish and wildlife habitat and recreation values while
ensuring that timber production will continue to supply a reliable
revenue stream to the counties and school districts of Northwest
Oregon
I strongly support Measure 34.
It is good for Oregon’s forests.
It is good for Oregon’s economy.
And, most importantly, it is good for Oregon’s working
families.
Annette Talbott

(This information furnished by Annette Talbott.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Dear Oregon Voters,
My name is Pete Sorenson, an elected Lane County
Commissioner. I grew up in Coos County, graduated from the
University of Oregon, ran a private law firm, and served as an
elected Oregon State Senator. I’ve been a licensed Oregon
attorney for 22 years. As a County Commissioner, I am commit-
ted to protecting our state forestlands. All Oregonians should
have a role in the administration of our state forests.
I’m writing to urge you to vote YES on the Tillamook 50/50
measure. This measure is fair and balanced measure that
will protect the Tillamook State Forest while providing qual-
ity family wage jobs.

This ballot measure represents a fair balance between forest
uses. Under the measure, 50% of the Tillamook and Clatsop
State Forest will be devoted to protecting drinking water, fish
and wildlife habitat and recreation while the other 50% will be
used for sustainable timber supplies.
This ballot measure will improve the economic viability of the
Tillamook State Forest. Through preservation and management,
this measure will create jobs in sustainable logging, restoration
forestry, and increase tourism and recreational uses of the forest.
This measure will help Oregon Schools. Under this measure,
schools in the Clatsop and Tillamook areas will receive guaran-
teed stable funding. In addition to this funding, a portion of the
revenues collected from timber sales will be dedicated to the
Common School Fund.

This measure is fair and balanced approach to managing and
protecting the Tillamook State Forest. Please join me in voting
YES on Ballot Measure 34, the Tillamook 50/50 measure.
Thank you,

Pete Sorenson
PS - If you have any questions about the seriousness of this
measure and why I favor it, please contact me Pete Sorenson
PO Box 10836, Eugene, Oregon 97440 or by calling me at
(541) 485-6726 or by sending me an email at
sorenson2004@juno.com

(This information furnished by Peter Sorenson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
31 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Favor

Local Businesses Urge a Yes Vote on Measure 34

Recreation and Tourism bring as much as $877 million

annually to the North Coast economy, including over 15,000

jobs. This is the fastest growing industry in Oregon.

We need a forest plan that encourages economic growth in

our communities!

As local business owners in Tillamook and Clatsop County,

we know better than anyone how important our forests are for

the local economy. It’s time that we adopted a balanced

management plan that looks out for small business

as well as logging.

The coastal economy is growing largely because of an influx of

retirees and second home owners. These people move here

because of the area’s natural beauty and quality of life, and they
always visit before they move. We need to adopt policies that
attract home buyers to our area, rather than turn them away.

Logging 85% of the State Forests is too extreme!

Everyone has seen the nasty clear-cuts on the way to the

coast. Now, the government wants to log 85% of our

State Forests over the next 25 years. It’s too extreme! We need

a plan that keeps the Oregon Coast a beautiful place

to visit, live, work, and play!

Standing Forests help control flooding, which costs local

businesses thousands of dollars each year.

Every year, Tillamook County businesses lose thousands of

dollars because of flooding. Now, over two years time,

clear-cutting in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests will rise
by over 50%, drastically increasing run-off. Who is going to help

pay to repair the increased flood damage?

Frankly we are sick and tired of paying for the costs of poor

decisions made by short-sighted politicians and bureau-
crats. These forests are supposed to benefit all Oregonians,

including small coastal businesses.

Measure 34 continues to supply timber to our local economy
while helping local businesses through increased recreation

and tourism and reduced flooding.

Support Local Businesses. Vote YES on Measure 34

(This information furnished by Peter and Janet Weidman, Astoria Real
Estate; Susan Tone, Realtor, Manzanita; Pam Selway Birmingham, realtor,
Seaside; Cliff and Judith Taylor, Clementine’s Bed & Breakfast; Daryl Hank
Johnson, Wave Crest Inn; Wayne Curtis, Wayne Curtis Construction; Peter
C. Sroufe, Peter Sroufe Hauling; James M. Kingwell, Icefire Glassworks;
Watt Childress, Jupiter’s Rare & Used Books.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon’s Sport and Commercial Fishermen Strongly Urge

You to Vote Yes on Measure 34.

Ballot Measure 34 is critical for the survival of the

coastal fishing industry.

Many Oregon residents don’t realize how much our wild salmon
populations have declined over the last few decades. Sport and

commercial fisheries for 5 of our 6 wild salmon species have
been closed on the Northern Oregon Coast due to population
declines. These reductions have meant a big loss in jobs and
revenue to the state and local counties. The only way to restore

our wild salmon runs and strengthen the fishing economy is
through balancing timber harvest with watershed health when

managing our forests.

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

Restoring fisheries means restoring jobs. In 2001,

sport-fishing contributed more than $1 billion to Oregon’s
economy, including $733 million in retail sales, $300 million

in wages and salaries, and nearly 13,000 jobs.

As recently as 1988, commercial salmon fishing contributed

more than $89 million to the Oregon economy, and

supported 4,450 family wage jobs. Though many jobs have

since been lost, protecting the last, best salmon habitat
in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests is a key to

restoring these jobs.

Ballot Measure 34 is will strengthen our local economy.

These forests are home to the few remaining runs of wild salmon

in Oregon, and they are also a great place to harvest timber.

The best part is that they are on public lands!

Measure 34 dedicates 50% of the two State Forests for

watershed protection and healthy fish and wildlife, and 50%

for logging. This is just the balance that Oregon’s

economy needs.

We don’t have to choose between fishing and timber.

Support Oregon’s Fishing Industry with a Balanced Forest

Management Plan. Vote Yes on Measure 34

(This information furnished by Glen H. Spain, Northwest Regional Director,
Institute for Fisheries Resources, Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen’s
Associations; Robert Rees, Bob Rees’ Fishing Guide Service,
www.NorthwestGuides.com; Nancy Paysinger, Fishing Guides Northwest;
Trevor Storlie, Red’s Guide Service of Oregon; Rob Russell, Firstwater
Outfitters; Dan Christopher, Quality Fishing Adventures.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Conservation Groups Support Measure 34
The Tillamook and Clatsop are OUR State Forests.
Oregonians from across the state came together to replant these
forests after the Great Tillamook Burn. These forests should be
managed to benefit ALL Oregonians, not just a few special
interest groups.
85% of the Tillamook and Clatsop State forests will be
logged within 25 years unless we pass Measure 34. The
Government’s plan is too extreme!
Over 350,000 Oregonians get their drinking water from the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests, including almost the entire
city of Hillsboro and parts of Beaverton. Measure 34 will pro-
tect drinking water.
The Tillamook is the largest contiguous expanse of unprotected
coastal temperate rainforest in the lower 48 states. We don’t
have to go to South America to find rainforests, they are right
here, in our backyard.
The current government plan rejected the advice of two sci-
entific panels. There are no permanent reserve areas for fish
and wildlife in the Tillamook and Clatsop State forests.
No watersheds are permanently protected to save our wild
salmon populations. The only protections provided are 25-ft
no-cut buffers on some streams. The Tillamook and Clatsop
nurture some of last healthy runs of Wild Salmon in Oregon
Measure 34 offers a balanced approach that will protect

and restore watersheds, wild salmon, wildlife habitat

and recreational opportunities while allowing for

sustainable logging.

Join the thousands of concerned Oregonians across the

state who know that we can do better for OUR State Forests

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
32 | Statewide Measures

Support Balanced Forest Management

Vote Yes on 34

(This information furnished by Jay Ward, Oregon Natural Resources
Council Action; Meryl Redisch, Audubon Society of Portland; Paula Del
Giudice, National Wildlife Federation; Guido Rahr, Wild Salmon Center;
Carol Porto, Sierra Club; Tom Wolf, Oregon Council Trout Unlimited;
Xander Patterson, Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility; Kelli J. Van
Norman, President, Native Plant Society of Oregon; Chuck Willer, Coast
Range Association; Doug Terra, President, Oregon Shores Conservation
Coalition.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Fact: Increased clear-cut logging does not create new jobs.
Timber giants and bureaucrats who profit from logging the
Tillamook will say it’s about jobs, but really it’s about corpo-
rate profits.

• When harvest levels on the Tillamook State Forest nearly

doubled during the late nineties, Tillamook County reported
an increase of only 8 jobs in the number of forestry and
lumber jobs created from 1995 to 2000. Economic Realities
in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests – January 2003

• In the meantime, profits skyrocketed for a few special

interests.

Technology, not ecology, results in job loss.
Howard Sohn, former Chair of the Oregon Board of Forestry
and owner of Lone Rock Timber explained this situation in
written testimony before the Legislature on 7-1-03. In the con-
text of discussing House Bill 3632-A, a bill that would increase
timber harvesting in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests, he
said:

• “Conditions in the economy and the industry are very differ-

ent than when the multipliers (additional jobs per million
board feet) were developed in the 1990’s.” “In the context
of overall harvest in Oregon, the increase envisioned is
small and will be absorbed by slack in the existing produc-
tion infrastructure.” “Efficiencies and excess capacity will
absorb most of the increase volume, without substantial
additional employment.”

• “While higher state land harvests may yield some benefit to

manufacturer and employment in the short run, the effect
will not be large. In addition, too aggressive a harvest level
will merely steal from the future.”

In other words, mechanization in timber production has
eliminated thousands of timber related jobs.
And just as important, logging 85% of our forests will result
in a loss of long term jobs—not only in forestry but also
fishing, tourism, and recreation.
Measure 34 assures continued jobs in logging and forestry and
creates new sustainable family wage jobs in restoration forestry.

Support Jobs today and for tomorrow

Vote Yes on 34

(This information furnished by Mari Anne Gest, Chief Petitioner,
Oregonians for a Balanced Tillamook.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments
Argument in Favor

Tree Planters Support Measure 34

The Tillamook has a special place in the history of Oregon
and the hearts of many Oregonians. Beginning in 1933, a
series of fires now known as the Tillamook Burn, destroyed
much of what is today, the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests.
These fires created a huge plume of smoke that could be seen
from the middle of the Pacific Ocean and left a desolate moon-
scape in their wake.

Oregonians Pull Together To Rebuild a Forest

In response to this devastation, Oregon voters came together by
passing a state bond measure that funded the replanting of
these forests. Replanting the Tillamook Burn depended on the
volunteer work of thousands of Oregon students, Boy and Girl
Scout troops, and church and community groups. When all was
said and done, Oregon volunteers came together to plant over
72 million trees.

Oregonians helped protect our quality of life

As Oregonians who replanted these forests, we were told that
we were restoring the Tillamook Burn, and helping to make the
state a better and more beautiful place. We proudly recognize
that these forests now contain some of the last healthy runs of
salmon and steelhead; provide habitat for bear, elk and bald
eagles; bring hundreds of millions of dollars into northwestern
Oregon; and provide drinking water to over 300,000 Oregonians
statewide. The Tillamook and Clatsop forests are now one of the
largest rainforests in the lower 48 states. The current plan to
open 85% of the forest to commercial logging would undo much
of what has been accomplished by Oregon voters and volun-
teers. With this huge investment of money and time, we believe
the people of Oregon should have a say how the Tillamook and
Clatsop Forests are managed. Join us.

Require Balance & Vote Yes on Ballot Measure 34

(This information furnished by Robert Sims, Michael Munk, John Bates,
Louis Jaffe, Doug Myers.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Vote Yes on Measure 34 to Keep Oregon’s Way of Life
Abundant close to home opportunities to fish, hunt, boat, hike
and camp with our families and friends are part of what defines
Oregon’s way of life. As people of faith, we value this
Northwest corner of creation for both its economic benefits
and outstanding recreational opportunities that build strong
families and inspire our souls. The Tillamook and Clatsop
State Forests are Oregon treasures that contribute to our way of
life. Measure 34 will ensure that close-to-home recreation is not
jeopardized while allowing a reasonable level of timber harvest.

Vote Yes on Measure 34 for Safe Drinking Water

We are blessed in Oregon by clean, safe drinking water from
forest watersheds for our towns and cities. Faithful and wise
stewardship of this gift now will protect it for our children.
Measure 34 ensures the entire forest will be managed to
protect against fires, floods, forest diseases and pests while
ensuring that drinking water is kept safe and clean.
Vote Yes on 34 for Jobs and Conservation

this special place using a common sense approach. Measure
34 preserves our outdoor way of life and leaves our timber
economy intact.

Stewardship is Central

As Jewish and Christian religious leaders, we share the
understanding That humankind is to “till and to tend” cre-
ation, both using it and caring for it in a way that ensures its
continued fruitfulness from generation to generation.
Stewardship is central to responsible use and care of our
forests.
Psalm 24:1 The earth is the Lord’s and the fullness thereof, the
world and those who dwell therein.
Ecumenical Ministries of Oregon
Restoring Eden/Christians for Environmental Stewardship
Rabbi Joseph Wolf

(This information furnished by Jenny Holmes, Ecumenical Ministries of
Oregon; Rabbi Joseph Wolf; Peter Illyn, Restoring Eden/Christians for
Environmental Stewardship.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Protect our Drinking Water-Vote Yes on Measure 34

Clean and plentiful water is a vital resource in Northwest
Oregon. Residential, industrial, and agricultural users all depend
on clean water for their families, to supply their businesses, and
grow their crops. Much of the water for Northwest Oregon’s resi-
dents originates in the Tillamook Rainforest. These public lands
are owned by all Oregonians and are currently threatened by an
aggressive logging plan that does not protect water quality. The
Oregon Department of Forestry is already clear cutting thou-
sands of acres a year in and around watersheds, and plans to
drastically increase the cutting in the next few years.
Over 350,000 Oregonians get drinking water from the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests, including much of
Washington, Tillamook, Clatsop and Columbia County. In the
next 50 years, the demand for clean drinking water in these
areas will double.
We can do better-Vote Yes on Measure 34-Require Balance

Measure 34 will balance sustainable timber harvests with protec-
tion for our drinking water, recreational opportunities and fish
and wildlife habitat. The current government plan will cut over
85% of OUR State Forests in just 25 years.

An award winning plan for Forest Grove’s watershed provides
200 foot buffers on streams and prohibits clear cutting while
providing for sustainable timber harvests. In contrast, the State’s
plan provides only 25 foot “no cut” buffers and aggressively
uses clear cutting, even on steep slopes in our watersheds.
Clean water is a precious resource, we must do better.

Our Quality of Life is Threatened-Vote Yes on Measure 34

The state’s aggressive logging plan threatens drinking water
quality, recreational opportunities and wild salmon popula-
tions in OUR State Forests. Measure 34 will balance timber
production with conservation, protecting OUR drinking water,
recreational opportunities, and fish and wildlife habitat while pro-
viding healthy revenue streams to local counties and schools.

Join Us, Vote Yes on Measure 34

Measure 34 proposes a reasonable level of timber production to
maintain jobs and local economies around the Tillamook and
Clatsop State Forests. It will also conserve and restore some of

Tualatin Riverkeepers
Columbia Riverkeeper

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
33 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

Oregon Citizens for Safe Drinking Water

(This information furnished by Lynne Campbell, Oregon Citizens for Safe
Drinking Water; Sue Marshall, Executive Director, Tualatin Riverkeepers;
Cindy deBruler, Columbia Riverkeeper.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

A message from anglers to Oregonians who love healthy

rivers and wild fish – Vote yes on Measure 34

Oregon’s North Coast mountains birth the headwaters of some
of Oregon’s healthiest rivers. We love these places.
Wilson.
Trask.
Little North Fork of the Wilson.
Kilchis.
Miami.
Nehalem.
North Fork Nehalem.
Salmonberry.
North Fork Trask.

These rivers run through public lands we call the Tillamook and
Clatsop State Forests. These rivers are home to important runs
of wild fish including spring, summer, fall and winter chinook
salmon, coho and chum salmon, as well as winter steelhead and
cutthroat trout.
Wild fish and healthy rivers are the products of a healthy
forest. They come from special places in these state forests.
Not every acre of these forests is created equal. Not every
acre should be harvested. Coastal rainforests need to grow big
trees that make a difference when they fall in the rivers. Big trees
create big fish which create big dollars for the local and regional
economy.
The Tillamook produces many sustainable resources includ-
ing wild fish, wood products, recreation and clean water.
Oregon Department of Forestry’s current plan will conduct
timber harvests across 85 percent of the landscape over the
next 25 years. This means increased roads and increased clear
cuts. Measure 34 has a different vision of the future.
Measure 34 will bring balance to the management of these
public lands, instill credible science into the process, protect
important non-timber products like wild salmon and clean
water, and still allow plenty of timber harvests.

Measure 34 does not seek a lock up, but simply balanced man-
agement of public resources. Help us shift the scales towards a
balanced and sustainable future for over 500,000 acres of public
land for all Oregonians.

Vote Yes on Measure 34.

David Moskowitz
Mark McCollister
Larry Palmer

Brian Posewitz
Ted Gresh
Les Helgeson

Robert Sheley
John Tyler

(This information furnished by Dave Moskowitz; Les Helgeson; John Tyler;
Larry Palmer; Robert Sheley; Brian Posewitz; Edward S. Gresh; Mark
McCollister.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Help Strengthen Our Economy. Vote Yes on Measure 34!

Recreation and tourism is the fastest growing sector of
Oregon’s economy.
In 2001 the sport-fishing Industry generated over $733 million in
retail sales and provided nearly 13,000 jobs.
Wildlife viewing is the number one activity in the Tillamook and
Clatsop State Forests. Wildlife viewing, which includes bird
watching and outdoor photography, generated $770 million in
sales and over 21,500 jobs in Oregon in 2001
Camping, hiking, and biking are the three most popular outdoor
activities in the United States, and kayaking is the fastest grow-
ing sport in America. Outdoor recreation brings as much as
$877 million to the North Coast economy annually.
Over half of the healthy runs of wild salmon in Oregon are
located the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests. The forests are
some of the best places to fish for wild salmon in the world.
Other than meager 25-ft. no cut buffers on some streams,
there are no permanent protections for fish or our water-
ways under the current state plan.
Over 85% of OUR state forests will be logged in the next 25
years. It’s too extreme.
Regardless of what some land managers might tell you, people
don’t hike or bike through clear-cuts, and they don’t kayak or
cast in muddy water. The truth is that people don’t buy boats,
tackle, rods, and bait if they don’t have places to fish and float.
There are huge economic benefits to protecting our natural
amenities, and with people taking more frequent trips closer to
home, we need great places to enjoy right in OUR backyard!
Its time to adopt a forest plan that reflects Oregon’s changing
economy.
Some bureaucrats might not know much about the value of

a standing forest, but we sure do.

Oregon Businesses Rely on Recreation and Tourism

Support Oregon’s Economic Future. Vote Yes on Measure 34!

(This information furnished by Marty Sherman, ClackaCraft Drift Boats;
Frank W. Amato; Andy Hardwick, Outdoor Supply Company, Tuf-Cat
Pontoon Boats; Christopher Conaty, Idylwilde Flies; Vicki Grayland,
Photographer; Sam Drevo & Kristin Dahl, eNRGKayaking.com.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Enjoy Camping, Fishing, Hiking, Biking, Kayaking,

4-wheeling, or Wildlife Viewing in Northwest Oregon?

Vote Yes on Measure 34!

The Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests are important for
timber, but they are equally important as a place for recreation
close to Oregon’s booming population centers. 

The government currently plans on logging off over 85% these
forests over the next 25 years, leaving little for the benefit of
most Oregonians who know them for their stunning beauty and
abundant recreational opportunities. It is time that we adopted a
balanced plan that considers both our need for timber revenue
and the importance of recreation and quality of life to the resi-
dents of Oregon.
Measure 34 requires balance. If we pass Measure 34, 
recreation, clean water, and fish and wildlife habitat will be 

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
34 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

considered as equally beneficial as logging on OUR State
Forests
We understand that some politicians and bureaucrats don’t see
the value of running the Wilson River, fly fishing the Trask, hiking
the Elk-King Traverse, or 4-wheelin’ at Brown’s Camp, but we
sure do. That is why we are all voting yes on Measure 34.
Wildlife viewing is the most popular activity in the Tillamook and
Clatsop State Forests, and it is one of the best places in the
world to fish for Wild salmon. The area is also popular for off-
road vehicle use. Hunters know the Tillamook and Clatsop for
their abundance of Roosevelt Elk, and kayakers love to paddle
on the Wilson River.

Measure 34 prioritizes all forms of recreation,

including biking and motorized recreation.

Measure 34 isn’t about locking the forest up, it’s about keeping
it open for all Oregonians—especially outdoor enthusiasts who
would rather hike or ride through Old-growth than clear-cuts. Its
simple—50% for the values that we all cherish—clean
streams, abundant fish and wildlife, and tons of recreational
opportunities—and 50% for logging
Let’s keep our state forest open for all Oregonians to enjoy

Vote Yes on 34

(This information furnished by Sam Drevo & Kristin Dahl,
eNRGKayaking.com; James Monteith, Backcountry Hunters and Anglers.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The Oregon Society of American Foresters STRONGLY
OPPOSES Ballot Measure 34. We agree with Governor
Kulongoski’s recent (June 28) assessment of the current plan for
the Tillamook Forest: “Oregon’s economic, environmental, and
community well-being are inextricably intertwined with the
State’s forests across all ownerships. We have the chance to
show how to provide for that well-being through the implemen-
tation of this management plan for the Tillamook State Forest.”

The current plan was developed publicly over several years by
state forestry professionals using substantial input from many
agencies, conservationists, academics, county officials, recre-
ation groups, and other interests. The plan identifies a variety
of management methods to meet diverse needs, including the
goal of a healthy forest environment today and for future gen-
erations. Ballot Measure 34 replaces this thoughtful, broadly
based plan with the views of narrow interests.

Oregon law clearly gives the Oregon Board of Forestry and
the State Forester the leadership for planning and manage-
ment of state forests. Measure 34 inappropriately removes
this vital authority.

Measure 34 incorrectly asserts that the current plan neither
“protects” resources nor “balances” economic values with
non-economic values. In fact, it uses advanced practices to
protect watershed and wildlife values throughout the forest,
and pointedly gives single priority to these resources over
about 30% of the total area.

Measure 34 ignores the risks of vast unmanaged areas,
including outbreaks of insects, disease, and catastrophic
wildfire. The current plan applies new science and active
forest management to maintain and improve forest health,
reducing hazards.

Oregon Society of American Foresters has over 1000 members,
including foresters, scientists, administrators and educators who
contribute to the management of public and private forestlands
throughout Oregon. We support professional, conscientious
management of Oregon’s forest resources, including state lands.
Ballot Measure 34 drastically shifts vast areas of state forests to
unmanaged status, the same approach that currently is failing to
provide environmental, economic, and social sustainability over
extensive areas of federal lands.

(This information furnished by John Herbst, CF, Chairman, Oregon Society
of American Foresters.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The forester responsible for

restoring Oregon’s Tillamook Forest

speaks out against Measure 34.

After huge wildfires, called the Tillamook Burn, torched Coast
Range forests in the 30s and 40s, cash-strapped counties trans-
ferred ownership of the barren lands to the state. As a young
forester, I was assigned to lead the team restoring these forests.
The state agreed to undertake the most massive reforestation
project ever. In exchange, counties agreed to repay bonds and
take a share of timber revenues when the forests matured.

Measure 34 breaks that bargain. It would cost more than 2,600
Oregonians their jobs. Rural communities would be hit hardest.
Sponsors call it balanced, but their arithmetic doesn’t add up.
Harvests from state forests provide revenue for all schools in
Oregon. Measure 34 would reduce funding for schools and local

continued ➔

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
35 | Statewide Measures

Measure 34 Arguments

governments by more than $25 million a year. Oregonians, you
and I, would give up more than $1 billion of timber value that
would otherwise be used to support our schools, local govern-
ments and our economy.

I join with foresters across the state who worry that Measure 34
would significantly increase the risk of massive forest fires,
insect infestations and the spread of disease in these forests.
The state’s current forest plan already provides strict protections
for watersheds and wildlife. Putting more land off limits adds no
environmental benefits. Curtailing harvests, however, cuts money
for fish restoration, recreation and clean water projects on the
forestlands. Worse, it cuts funds for forest health protection and
forest firefighting.
The Tillamook Burn taught an earlier generation the price paid
for poor forest management. Measure 34 would replace the
current science-based management plan, developed in a seven-
year public process, with a rejected plan that trusts the future of
our forests to environmental activists and the courts. It endan-
gers the health of our forests and damages Oregon’s economy.
Please join me in voting NO on Measure 34. Let’s not get burned
again.

(This information furnished by Edward Schroeder, Oregon State Forester,
Retired.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

CHILDREN AND PUBLIC EDUCATION

CANNOT AFFORD MEASURE 34
The Oregon Education Association

Urges You to Vote No

Sometimes a ballot measure goes much farther than what it
looks like on the surface. Measure 34 is one of those with
unintended consequences – this time affecting your public
schools and community services. Why? Because if Measure 34
were to pass, schools and local governments stand to lose
$25 million per year due to losses from timber revenue.
In the last two years, the state’s school budget has been cut by
more than $500 million. At this point, $25 million will make a big
difference in the education of students in your local schools.

The Oregon Education Association--representing teachers,
education support professionals and community college faculty
in more than 1,200 schools in Oregon--says no to Measure 34.
Measure 34 is not fair to Oregon’s students, whether they come
from Tillamook and Clatsop counties or from other districts
across the state. That’s because revenue losses from timber
harvest areas must be backfilled by the state’s school budget,
which spreads the loss across all 198 school districts.

I t ’s no secret that Ore g o n ’s public schools suffer from inadequate
and unstable funding. This measure compounds the problem.
Our public schools simply can’t afford it.
The top priority of the Oregon Education Association is to ensure
that every student in Oregon has access to a full curriculum and
high standards of public education. We cannot support a ballot
measure with unintended consequences that risks millions of
dollars of funding for our public schools.

In a time of hard choices, I ask that you support your local
schools. Please join teachers and other education professionals
who work wonders every day in our classrooms with limited
resources. Say no to more school cuts. Vote NO on Measure 34.

Kris Kain, President
Oregon Education Association

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
36 | Statewide Measures

(This information furnished by Kris Kain, President, Oregon Education
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

THE OREGON FARM BUREAU RECOMMENDS YOU VOTE
NO ON MEASURE 34
Some extremists are at it again – pushing their special interest
agenda at the expense of Oregonians.
They are pushing for a ban on timber harvesting on more than
half of the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests despite the fact
the forests have been successfully and fairly managed since
1973 under already strict plans.
When you factor in the wooded areas the state has already set
aside to preserve water and natural wildlife habitat, the new
harvesting ban would cover more than 60 percent – NOT an
equal 50 percent. Mandating so much forest acreage off-limits
to responsible harvest causes greater vulnerability to fire and
disease.
The Oregon Department of Forestry has done a good job
managing the Tillamook and Clatsop state forests, balancing
timber harvesting, recreational use and habitat preservation.
With successful management the state has generated revenue,
benefiting Oregonians through responsible forest use for
decades.
Why suddenly place half the forest off limits?

Measure 34 is too extreme for state forests, the state economy
and the thousands of Oregonians who could lose their jobs.

Oregonians are at risk of losing $1 billion of timber value that
would otherwise support schools, local government and the
state’s economy. Timber harvesting provides essential revenue
for:
• Schools throughout the state;
• Local governments;
• Fish and wildlife habitat improvement projects;
• New recreational opportunities; and
• Funds to fight forest fires.
We can’t afford Measure 34. Don’t allow the extremists to push
their narrow agenda.
Measure 34 will not benefit Oregon. We urge you to VOTE NO.

(This information furnished by Barry Bushue, Oregon Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Measure 34: It Doesn’t Add Up for Oregon.
I’m K. C. VanNatta. For over 60 years my family and I have
owned and operated healthy forestland in Columbia County.
Although I live in the Northwest corner of the state, I feel a bond
with all of rural Oregon whose communities and livelihood are
being destroyed by urban and out-of-state special interest
groups.
Timber jobs matter and Oregon relies on families like mine to
maintain the healthy renewable forests that provide economic
stability to this state. It isn’t nice scenery that creates healthy
forests, but rather responsible, scientifically proven harvest and
planting practices.

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

Oregonians need to understand that this measure not only
dooms the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests to disease and
fire, but that 2,600 people will lose their jobs.
NOTHING in this plan adds up to a better Oregon. Vote NO
on Measure 34.

(This information furnished by K.C. VanNatta.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 34 IS UNFAIR TO OREGON

60 years ago, after devastating fires ravaged their forestlands,
Tillamook and Clatsop Counties transferred ownership to the
state for replanting and management. The state agreed to sell
bonds to fund restoration of the forests and the counties agreed
to repay the costs from timber revenues. Thousands of
Oregonians pitched in to help with replanting so future genera-
tions could enjoy timber harvest revenues from these forests to
support schools and counties.
Measure 34 would disregard the state’s agreement with the
counties and dramatically cut revenues for schools, counties
and the state.
The Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests have been intensely
managed in an exemplary fashion for the sustained production
of timber in a cost-effective and environmentally sound manner.
Salmon, wildlife, watersheds and endangered species are
already explicitly protected under standards that greatly exceed
the Oregon Forest Practices Act.
The state forests are some of the most productive forestlands in
the world today. They are important to Oregon’s economy and
provide revenues shared among counties, school districts and
local governments.
Oregon has been successful balancing the state forests for
environmental and economic benefit. Measure 34 is bad policy.
Please vote NO.

(This information furnished by Tim Josi, Chair, Council of Forest Trust
Land Counties.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

TILLAMOOK COUNTY SHERIFF URGES YOU TO VOTE NO
ON MEASURE 34
I’m Todd Anderson, the Tillamook County Sheriff, and I’m
voting NO ON MEASURE 34.

If Measure 34 passes, public safety in Tillamook and Clatsop
counties will face budget cuts. Timber revenues in our area
provide money not only for schools, but also for our local
governments, which run our public safety programs. Local gov-
ernments and schools will lose $25 million per year. Why
sacrifice our public safety for an untested forestry plan?

When the Sheriff’s Office loses funding, you lose, too. Less
timber revenue means less protection for our community. It
means fewer officers protecting our citizens. It means less
access to emergency services when our neighbors need it most.
It means less money to keep criminals in jail.
The Oregon State Sheriff’s Association has publicly denounced
Measure 34 because of the negative effects it will have on public

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
37 | Statewide Measures

safety in Tillamook and Clatsop Counties. Sheriffs all over
Oregon know that this plan doesn’t add up to safer
communities.
The “50-50” plan is an untested forestry proposal that would
ban timber harvests on more than 60 percent of the Tillamook
and Clatsop State Forests. The state has analyzed the plan
and concluded that people will lose their jobs and public safety
and other local programs will lose millions. Why support that?
How many jobs are you willing to cut? Oregon’s economy still
struggles, and we need to save every job and every dollar we
can.
Fellow Oregonians, join me in voting down a proposal that
will make our communities less safe. 
Help me maintain the safety of my community. Vote NO on
Measure 34.

(This information furnished by Todd Anderson, Tillamook County Sheriff,
Tillamook County Sheriff’s Office.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Fishermen for Common Sense Say “NO ON 34!”
A July 27, 2004 Tillamook County Headlight-Herald editorial
said:
“Proponents of the 50-50 plan also list ‘protection of
drinking water, conservation of wildlife and salmon habitat,
expansion and protection of recreational opportunities’
among their prime goals.
But, once again, measures to ensure just that protection are
already in place under the existing ODF plan. Although this
plan has been in place only three years, scientists already
are reporting that water quality in the Tillamook is the best
its been since the ’30s and ’40s, and wild Coho salmon have
rebounded significantly from their threatened condition.”

We couldn’t agree more.
As a group of commonsense fishermen, we know that the
current forest management plan protects our wild salmon and
drinking water. We’re not willing to let the special interests
behind Measure 34 dictate what happens in our fishing
communities.

This plan is a radical idea that the Legislature soundly rejected
last fall. We’re urging other voters to join us in saying, “If it ain’t
broke, don’t fix it!” The current management plan takes care of
fish and the water they live in without damaging our rural com-
munities by cutting jobs, reducing money for police, fire
departments and schools.

Fishermen for Common Sense cares about fish because we
make our living from this precious natural resource. The new
plan would not provide significant safeguards to fish that aren’t
already there in the current plan. We are standing with our neigh-
bors to fight this unfair measure that will cut jobs and hurt our
state. Like they say: It doesn’t add up.

We’re asking our fellow Oregonians to vote no on Measure 34
because it will damage Oregon—not improve it.
“IF IT AIN’T BROKE, DON’T FIX IT!”
Vote No on Measure 34.

(This information furnished by A.D. “Gus” Meyer, Fishermen for Common
Sense.)

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

YEARS OF RESEARCH PROVE THE “50-50” PLAN

ISN’T BEST FOR OREGON’S FORESTS.

The current plan to manage the Tillamook and Clatsop State
Forests was developed from a large body of recent scientific
information. A 12-year, $25 million research program on the
management of Oregon’s coastal forests, including riparian
zones, fish and wildlife habitat and water quality was completed
in 1998. The research program was led by scientists from OSU
and the Forest Service’s Pacific Northwest Research Station,
with cooperation from state and federal natural resource man-
agement agencies, the forest industry, city, county and tribal
governments, and local woodland owners.

The Board of Forestry incorporated this research into the current
management plan after lengthy consultation with research 
program scientists and others. The research demonstrated the
importance of active management in maintaining the long-term
health and productivity of our coastal forests and streams.
Banning active management of more than 60% of these lands,
as proposed in Measure 34, is counter to the findings of this
research effort.

The current forest management plan for the Tillamook and
Clatsop state forests was developed with the best, most current
scientific information available. Measure 34 would institute a
plan that would discount over 12 years of careful research by
some of the top forest scientists in our region and diminish fund-
ing for forest health projects.

Please join me in voting NO on MEASURE 34.

(This information furnished by Dr. George Brown, Former Dean, OSU,
College of Forestry; Former Director, Oregon Forest Research Laboratory.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Measure 34 Will Cripple Our County
Tillamook County Commissioners

As Tillamook County Commissioners, it is our duty to try to
make Northwest Oregon as productive and successful as it can
be, but Measure 34 threatens the very fabric of our rural com-
munities. We’re proud that counties all over Oregon oppose this
measure because of its dramatic financial and economic
impacts on the ENTIRE STATE.

Here are 6 reasons why we hope you’ll help us protect our
community and vote no on Measure 34:

1. Local governments and schools throughout Oregon would

lose $25 million per year, which means less money for police,
fire and emergency services.

2. Over 2,600 family-wage earners will lose their jobs.
3. Forest fire prevention will be cut by over $5 million per year.
4. Out-of-state environmental groups are funding the measure.
5. Schools all over Oregon will foot the bill for the millions lost in

our area due to less timber revenue.

6. Revenues available for fish and wildlife habitat improvement
projects and new recreational opportunities on state forest-
lands would be reduced.

Measure 34 weakens our rural communities and at the same
time reduces timber revenues that are distributed throughout

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
38 | Statewide Measures

Oregon. Timber revenues make it easier for the state to send
money to places where timber harvests aren’t conducted.
Therefore, taxpayers all over Oregon pay less when timber
revenues are used to support our schools and police and fire
departments. 
Timber harvests have a place in our economy. The timber
industry supports jobs, supports schools and supports local
governments that provide fire protection and public safety.
Measure 34 is just another nail in the coffin of this already ailing
industry. Oregon needs to preserve jobs, not cut them.
Let’s work together to save Oregon jobs and say NO to
special interests that don’t care about jobs in rural Oregon.

Vote no on Measure 34.

(This information furnished by Paul Hanneman, Charles Hurliman, Tim
Josi; Tillamook County Board of Commissioners.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Don’t Lock Up More Oregon Forests
We oppose Measure 34 for six reasons:
1. The family forest owners of Oregon represented by the
Oregon Small Woodlands Association support a balanced
approach to the management of Oregon’s forests. Measure 34
significantly reduces that balanced management approach and
polarizes the use of the forests owned by all the citizens of
Oregon.
2. If Measure 34 is passed, local governments and schools
would lose $25 million a year. State funds to fight forest fires will
be cut by more than $5 million a year, and state forest manage-
ment budgets will be cut by more than $9 million a year.
3. Land use conversion is more likely without long-term local
timber markets. The significant reduction of available harvest
from state-owned timber will lead to reduced milling capacity in
Northwest Oregon, which will have a negative impact on the
opportunity for family forest owners to manage and market their
forest resources.
4. Oregon’s unemployment rate is one of the highest in the
nation. Under the Measure 34 plan we will lose more than 2,600
jobs, and Oregon can’t afford that right now.

5. Measure 34 will dramatically increase the danger of massive
forest fires, insects and the rapid spread of disease in the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests. This in turn threatens
neighboring family forests.

6. Harvesting and replanting forests in compliance with Oregon
Law shows the world we are serious about sustainability. Wood
in general, is a “green” product; local Oregon wood is better. We
won’t stop using wood in our everyday lives when forests are
locked up. We either import it or use a substitute such as plastic
or steel. Let’s not live in a “state of denial” where our sustain-
ability talk is cheap.
Oregon Small Woodlands Association urges you to vote NO
on Measure 34.
Oregon just can’t afford it!

(This information furnished by Mike Gaudern, OSWA.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

forestlands that burned for months in Central and Southern
Oregon last summer.

Tillamook County 9-1-1 Center

Protect Public Safety in Tillamook County.

Vote No on Measure 34

The 9-1-1 Center dispatches all police, fire and emergency med-
ical services in Tillamook County. We know that timber harvests
provide essential funding in our area, and make it easier for us
to protect our community in life-or-death situations.
If Measure 34 passes, local governments and schools all over
the state will lose $25 million per year. That includes public
safety, and the people you call for help when it matters most.

Not only will public safety suffer, but over 2,600 rural Oregonians
will lose their jobs. Those of us in Tillamook County cannot sit
idly and watch our neighbors lose their jobs because an
untested plan to ban logging on more than 60 percent of the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests.
This ban would also cut $5 million from the Oregon Department
of Forestry’s fire prevention budget. Oregon cannot afford less
fire protection, especially with the devastation we all watched
occur in Southern Oregon last summer.
The Tillamook County 9-1-1 Center urges you to support your
emergency services and reject the out-of-state special interests
supporting Measure 34. Less timber revenue means less funding
to help protect our friends and neighbors.
Help us keep Tillamook County safe and VOTE NO ON
MEASURE 34.

(This information furnished by Stan Sheldon, 9-1-1 Center Board Chair.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

State Representatives

Dave Hunt (D-Oak Grove) and Mike Schaufler (D-Happy Va l l e y )

Ask You to Vote NO on Measure 34

As state representatives, it’s our job to look out for our con-
stituents. Measure 34 would cut over $25 million to schools and
local governments every year—and that isn’t good for anyone in
Oregon.

It’s a fact that timber revenues provide funding for schools and
for basic government services like public safety, fire fighting,
community-based health care. We know Oregon is in a tough
financial spot today, and we can’t afford more cuts in services
on which our constituents depend.
Furthermore, the “50-50” plan was already rejected twice. An
Oregon Department of Forestry panel of scientists, environ-
mental and timber industry advocates, economists and forest
management experts rejected this plan over a seven-year
planning process. Then, last legislative session, legislators
refused to act on the 50-50 plan because of its clearly
economically devastating consequences.

Measure 34 would cost our state 2650 lost jobs and $1 billion in
timber revenue. This isn’t acceptable to us, and it isn’t right for
Oregon. Backers of this measure are attempting to circumvent
the public process and sell this idea to the voters in a series of
sound bytes that don’t tell the whole story.
Perhaps the worst part of Measure 34 is the fact that $5 million
would be cut from the ODF’s fire fighting budget. It is irrespon-
sible and unacceptable to leave our forests even more
vulnerable to devastating fires and disease. Let’s not let the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests end up like the federal

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
39 | Statewide Measures

Oregon can’t afford to pass Measure 34. It cuts money for
schools, local governments, and fire prevention. This isn’t
acceptable to us, and we hope it’s not acceptable to you.
Join us in voting NO ON MEASURE 34.

(This information furnished by Rep. Dave Hunt and Rep. Mike Schaufler.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Former Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission Chairman

Paul McCracken

FISH AND WILDLIFE ARE ALREADY HEAVILY PROTECTED

Vote NO on Measure 34—It just doesn’t add up.

As an Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commissioner, I’ve worked with
numerous Oregonians with interests in the future of our state
forests. I’m also an avid angler, and have succeeded in restoring
forested salmon habitat on 1,400 acres of land I own in
Northwestern Oregon. The wildlife in Oregon is important to me,
and that’s why I’m urging you to VOTE NO ON MEASURE 34.
The 50-50 plan doesn’t add up to better stewardship for our
precious fish and wildlife. Here’s why:

• Oregon already has strict forest management laws that
protect fish, wildlife and water quality. Decreasing timber harvest
levels and replacing the state’s current plan just doesn’t make
sense. The Northwest Oregon State Forest Management Plan
was crafted through a lengthy and deliberate public process in
2001 and that plan plainly lays down restrictions to protect fish,
wildlife and water quality on state lands that considerably
exceed tough restrictions required by the State Forest Practice
rules for private lands.
• Because the existing laws to protect the fish, wildlife and
water quality have proven to be so effective, restricting logging
on more than 60% (when you add riparian buffers) of these
lands would have little environmental benefit.
• The state’s plan already provides adequate funding for fish
and wildlife habitat restoration in these areas, while at the same
time allowing timber sales that benefit local and state
economies.
Why sacrifice Oregon jobs, rural county services and school
funding if we’re already taking good care of our precious water,
fish and wildlife? Let’s care for ALL of Oregon.
VOTE NO ON MEASURE 34.

(This information furnished by Paul McCracken.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGON WHEAT GROWERS LEAGUE

OPPOSES MEASURE 34

Oregon state forests are managed under strict requirements and
that have benefited forest health and our economy.
Measure 34 makes no sense. The special interest groups say
they want a balance, but what they want is a ban. Measure 34
would ban harvesting on more than 60% of the Tillamook and

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

Clatsop State Forests.
Our state forests are already managed for balance. They are
among the most healthy forests in the world with such strict
clean water and habitat protection that additional timber set-
asides would have little environmental benefit.
Measure 34 is funded by out-of-state environmental groups. We
can’t allow out-of-state interests to determine what is best
for Oregon.
Measure 34 threatens valuable family-wage jobs. Oregon’s
jobless rate is among the worst in the nation. We can’t afford to
lose more family-wage jobs. If Measure 34 passes, the result will
be thousands out of work and would cost Oregon’s economy
$123 million of personal income per year.
Please don’t allow extremism to waste the value of our state
forests. Vote NO on 34.

(This information furnished by Karl Scronce, President, Oregon Wheat
Growers League.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon’s Counties Stand to Lose MILLIONS

Association of Oregon Counties Asks All Oregonians
to Help Preserve Police, Fire, Emergency Services,

Senior Community Services and Road
Maintenance—AND VOTE NO ON 34!

Oregon’s counties depend directly on timber harvest revenues
for large parts of their annual budgets. AOC is asking you to
help us preserve services like emergency services, police,
fire, community-based health care and road maintenance.
Without the timber harvest dollars the counties depend upon,
Oregon communities can expect to experience cuts in programs
that make their communities more safe and livable.
If Measure 34 passes, Local Governments and Schools will
Lose $25 million per year.
This measure doesn’t add up. Estimates say over 2,600
Oregonians will lose their jobs if Measure 34 passes, which
means more people dependent on your tax dollars and less
people contributing to our communities. Oregon’s current forest
management plan was developed by a team of scientists from
numerous fields over seven years with public input.
Timber revenues keep our citizens from having to pay more
taxes and keep rural Oregonians at work! We trust the Oregon
Department of Forestry to do what’s right for all of Oregon, not
just the special interests. An untested plan is not worth sacri-
ficing the livability and safety of our communities.
Help your county maintain services for you and your neigh-
bors. Vote No on Measure 34.

(This information furnished by Mike McArthur, Executive Director,
Association of Oregon Counties.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
40 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Opposition

Tillamook-Based Fishing Guides Oppose Measure 34

Our communities and forests depend on it.

As residents of Tillamook County, we know it is imperative that
our leaders and citizens do everything possible to defeat
Measure 34. We believe that our coastal economy, our jobs, our
environment, our infrastructure, our schools and the well-being
of our communities could be devastated if we do not.
Measure 34 is an extreme alternative to the Oregon Department
of Forestry’s current plan.
Here are some reasons why:

• The 50-50 plan, which has no science to back it up, would be
locked in place for 20 years before its success or failure could
even be reviewed. That’s far too long.
• Environmental protection plans are already at work under the
ODF’s current plan. Scientists are reporting that water quality in
the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests is the best it has been
since the ’30s and ’40s, and wild Coho salmon have rebounded
significantly from their threatened condition.

• The 50-50 plan has the potential to mortally wound our local
economy. With Oregon’s economy still on shaky ground, this is
no time to gamble by cutting jobs and revenue for schools and
basic government services.

• In Tillamook County we know there is no environmental crisis,
except the one the Portland-based environmental groups are
about to create if we do not stop Measure 34.
• Nothing in the 50-50 plan would replace logging revenue lost
to local schools from the state’s General Fund.
Help us stop this extreme plan. Vote NO ON MEASURE 34.

This statement has been endorsed by these Tillamook Fishing
Guides:

Tim Juarez
Jack Smith
M. John Krauthoefer III

(This information furnished by M. John Krauthoefer III, Fire Fighter’s Guide
Service; Tim Juarez; Jack Smith.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 34 IS A STEPPING STONE

Don’t be fooled. Environmentalists are using this seemingly

innocent plan to begin shutting down timber harvests

on all of Oregon’s forests.

Even private lands.

Oregonians in Action fights to protect the rights of private
property owners in Oregon. Measure 34 is obviously a huge leap
for environmentalists in their crusade to ban logging on all of
Oregon’s forests. Their next step will be banning logging on
privately owned lands.
We believe private property owners have a fundamental right to
earn an honest living by responsibly harvesting timber on their
own land. Oregonians in Action doesn’t want to see this happen
to Oregon, and Measure 34 would be a dangerous first step in
the wrong direction.

Measure 34 would ban logging on more than 60 percent of the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests. What would stop

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

environmental groups from attempting to “set aside” more
forestland in the future if they succeed in November?
Also, the plan would cut over $5 million from the Oregon
Department of Forestry’s forest fire prevention budget. This
means that there will be less money to protect all Oregon forests
from fires—even private property. Massive fires like those that
burned last summer in Southern Oregon don’t discriminate
against private or public lands. Everything burns. Let’s not get
burned again.

Join Oregonians in Action and say no to this irresponsible, unfair
plan.
Vote No on Measure 34

(This information furnished by David J. Hunnicutt, Executive Director,
Oregonians in Action.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Measure 34 Will Hurt Oregon’s Economy, Cost jobs,

And Harm Forest Health

The Tillamook State Forest was planted by Oregon’s human
hands and then nurtured for 50 years by Oregon Department of
Forestry employees as an investment intended to benefit
Oregon’s future and economic well-being. It is a shining example
of forest renewability and sustainability.
The existing Tillamook Forest management plan, developed after
years of professional planning, public meetings, citizen input and
scientific reviews, is far better for Oregon than Ballot Measure
34. The existing plan is a scientifically-based management
approach that addresses the myriad of public demands and
environmental values necessary to effectively manage the
Tillamook Forest for wildlife, air, and water quality, while creating
jobs and revenues for schools, counties, and the State of
Oregon.

Measure 34 is anything but balanced and is bad for Oregon.

• Timber harvest on the Tillamook Forest would drop to less

than 25% of sustainable harvest.

• More than $1 billion of timber would be set aside, resulting

in the loss of 2,650 family wage jobs, and cost Oregon’s
economy $123 million of personal income per year.

• Each year, revenues to local governments and schools

would be reduced by more than $25 million, and the gen-
eral fund budget would take an additional $10 million hit.
Measure 34 would also do serious harm to state forest health.

• Putting most of the Tillamook Forest off limits to manage-
ment would be the same flawed approach that has caused
dangerous fuel buildup and damaged formerly healthy
Federal forestlands with intense, uncharacteristic wildfires,
such as Oregon’s 500,000 acre Biscuit fire in 2002.

• It reduces funding for fish and wildlife habitat enhancement,

cuts more than $5 million from state funds to fight forest
fires and cuts forest management budgets by more than
$9 million a year.

OREGON CAN’T AFFORD MEASURE 34.

We urge you to VOTE NO.

(This information furnished by Rick Sohn, Chair of the Board, Oregon
Forest Industries Council.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
41 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Opposition

CLATSOP COUNTY COMMISSIONERS URGE

NO VOTE ON MEASURE 34

Clatsop County cannot afford Measure 34. The so-called
50/50 plan is an ill-conceived approach that would cost Clatsop
and other counties millions of dollars in revenue. Measure 34
completely ignores the social and economic needs of the county
and all of Oregon.
Passage of Measure 34 would cause the loss of valuable jobs,
hurt our healthy forests, cripple our infrastructure, rob our
schools and devastate the coastal economy.
Measure 34 is unnecessary and too extreme. Old-growth,
drinking water and conservation of wildlife are already protected
under the current management plan and the Tillamook and
Clatsop forests are already among the healthiest and most pro-
ductive in the world. If passed, the lack of management would
dramatically increase the danger of another massive forest fire,
and would allow for the rapid spread of disease.
Banning harvests on more than 60 percent of the Tillamook and
Clatsop forests won’t help the environment and will wound our
local economy. Not only will our residents lose jobs, but also
revenues received from timber harvesting would crash from
$9.36 million to $0.

The county would be forced to cut services and the ripple effect
would be devastating. Additionally, Schools are already strug-
gling for funding. Measure 34 doesn’t only affect Clatsop and
Tillamook counties. If passed schools and local governments
around the state would stand to lose $25 million a year.
Measure 34 is not only bad for Clatsop County, but it is bad for
all of Oregon.

Please Vote NO.

(This information furnished by Clatsop County Commissioners Lylla
Gaebel, Richard Lee, Sam Patrick and Patricia Roberts.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

How Many Jobs are You Willing to Sacrifice?

The numbers don’t lie.

Over 2,600 Oregonians will lose their jobs

if Measure 34 passes.

Associated Oregon Industries, the voice of Oregon business at
the Capitol, wants you to help us save Oregon jobs by voting
against Measure 34.
The so-called 50-50 plan would ban timber harvesting on over
60 percent of the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests. This
ballot box forestry proposal will cripple already ailing rural com-
munities in the northwestern part of our state. Now more than
ever Oregonians need to stand together to say:

• NO TO LOSING OVER 2,000 JOBS
• NO TO CLOSING SAWMILLS
• NO TO BANNING TIMBER HARVESTS IN OREGON’S

FORESTS

• NO TO CRIPPLING OREGON’S TIMBER INDUSTRY
• NO ON MEASURE 34!

Oregon needs to harvest timber. It’s a sector of our economy the
backers of Measure 34 would like to slowly eradicate. We
believe environmental, economic and recreational needs can
exist together in Oregon, and the Oregon Department of
Forestry’s current plan exemplifies this.

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

Measure 34’s supporters believe that their plan will build the
economy because businesses locate in our area because of our
forests and natural beauty. This is absurd. We agree Oregon is
beautiful, but as the voice of business in Oregon, we know a
picture on a postcard doesn’t spur economic development. We
also know our members value real incentives like low workers’
compensation rates and quality public schools. We believe this
proposal is full of flaws and falsehoods, and it will strangle
Oregon’s economy.
Join Oregon businesses by voting no on Measure 34. Losing
jobs, closing sawmills and crippling an entire sector of
Oregon’s economy just doesn’t add up.

Richard Butrick
President
Associated Oregon Industries

(This information furnished by Richard M. Butrick, President, Associated
Oregon Industries.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon Building Industry Association

Vote NO on Measure 34: Less Timber = Big Consequences for
Oregon

The Oregon Building Industry Association works to defend home
ownership opportunities for all Oregonians. If Measure 34
passes, it will ban timber harvests on more than 60 percent of
the lands in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests, and result
in higher costs for Oregonians trying to buy homes.
Less lumber from Oregon timber resources means using more
expensive, imported lumber. This costs all Oregonians more
money. It would cost more when you remodel your house. Rents
would rise for the apartment your son or daughter is moving into
and construction costs for houses, schools, offices and stores
would increase.
Responsible timber harvesting in Oregon makes sense, and
keeps costs lower for prospective homeowners.
Moreover, this measure will cut over $5 million from the
Department of Forestry’s fire prevention budget, which means
that our forests are at risk of catastrophic fires like the ones we
saw on federal forestlands last summer. Forest fires in any part
of Oregon drive up the cost of building and buying a home
because burned trees cannot be converted into usable lumber
products.

Finally, the economic impact on the state would be extreme if
Measure 34 passes. Over 2,600 hard working Oregonians will
lose their jobs and the state will lose $1 billion in timber value.
This doesn’t add up to a smart choice for Oregonians.
Join Oregon’s homebuilders in voting NO on MEASURE 34.

(This information furnished by Jon Chandler, CEO, Oregon Building
Industry Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGONIANS FOR FOOD AND SHELTER

STRONGLY OPPOSING MEASURE 34

The Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests are among the most
healthy and productive forests in the world. Measure 34 could
hurt the health and productivity of the forests – that’s why we
urge you to VOTE NO.

Measure 34 is not balance – it’s a ban. Harvest reductions would
cost more than 2,650 Oregonians their jobs and cost Oregonians
fragile economy $123 million of personal income a year.
It would have the greatest impact on rural Oregon. Since 1989,
163 sawmills have been closed, and Measure 34 would cause
the closure of even more.

Ten million acres of federal forestlands in Oregon are already off
limits to timber harvests. The shutdown of federal forests, cost-
ing thousands of jobs, has already been an economic disaster
for rural Oregon.

Besides further damaging Oregon’s economy, Measure 34 puts
the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests health at risk. The state
forests are already managed under a strict plan that was seven
years in the making involving citizens, scientists, environmental
groups and foresters.
If the forests can’t be actively managed they will be at risk of
catastrophic fire, rapid spread of disease and insects.
The state forests are already healthy and balanced. Through
careful and healthy management the forests contribute to
Oregon’s economy providing jobs, revenue for schools, local
governments, environmental improvement projects and new
recreational opportunities.

We urge you to vote NO on Measure 34 for the health of
Oregon’s forests and economy.

(This information furnished by Paulette Pyle, Oregonians for Food and
Shelter.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

DON’T VOTE TO ENDANGER

OUR FORESTS AND ECONOMY!

Responsible Stewardship Means Voting NO on Measure 34
The Economic Development Council of Tillamook County

Strongly Opposes Measure 34

The Oregon Forest Management Plan provides for healthy
forests that support a balanced economy. It evolved through a
seven-year process that brought together people with divergent
interests. The plan ensures that the forest will be appropriately
managed for ALL. It provides for fish and wildlife protection,
recreation opportunities, older-growth trees and intelligently
managed timber harvesting without clear-cutting. This scientifi-
cally based plan is our best opportunity to achieve both a
healthy forest and a healthy economy.

Over the past three years since the Forest Management Plan
has been in place:
Native fish counts have increased 230% to 388%
37 Miles of new trails have been built
2,4399,000 trees have been planted in the Tillamook District

Forest

Stream habitat improvements have dramatically increased.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
42 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

MEASURE 34 SEEKS TO DESTROY BALANCE THAT
ALREADY EXISTS
When the forest was replanted after the fires of the 1930s, ’40s
and ’50s, it was done primarily in one species. We know now
that a healthy forest must be diverse. Halting the Oregon Forest
Management Plan’s intelligent management of these forests
threatens the health of the ecosystem. And that is an economic
threat to the entire state.
Measure 34 presents potential risks to the forest in the form of
increased chance of forest fire, reduced forest firefighting funds,
the spread of Swiss Needle Cast disease and a reduced level of
funding to support infrastructure. Devastation in the forest would
have a very real economic impact.

Under the Forest Management Plan’s stringent guidelines, the
timber harvest is good for the environment, and the revenue
generated supports many more economic components than just
forest product jobs. It supports our schools, roads and services.

PRESERVE THE BALANCE OF A HEALTHY FOREST AND
ECONOMY.

(This information furnished by Dale Stockton, Board Member, Tillamook
County Economic Development Council.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Activists want more than 60 percent of the Tillamook and

Clatsop State Forests off-limits to timber harvests.

Enough already!

It’s a fact that of the 28 million acres of forestland in Oregon, just
under 10 million have permanent bans on timber harvests. This
acreage includes three million acres of wilderness areas and six
million of protected old growth. Millions more have stopped
producing timber due to litigation and wildfires. In contrast, the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests were replanted decades
ago for the express purpose of providing a sustainable timber
yield to fund basic government services like public safety and
schools.
Measure 34 is much more costly than advertised.

Legal opinions warn that most timber sales would be delayed by
litigation for a period of time nobody can predict. This means
that schools and local governments would take huge budget
cuts if their timber revenues are halted.

Furthermore, Measure 34 requires employers to pay prevailing
wages for any operations in these forests, which reduces a com-
pany’s budget to bid for timber. Prevailing wages alone would
cut the amount of timber revenue to the state by an average of
$35 per thousand board feet. This means the state would lose
$175,000 on a small, 5 million-board-foot timber sale. That num-
ber climbs as the volume of timber gets higher—which means
more lost revenues for local governments and schools.

These forests are a valuable resource that can benefit all
Oregonians if properly and fairly managed.

Measure 34 is expensive, wasteful and unnecessary.
Join me in VOTING NO ON MEASURE 34.

(This information furnished by Sean M. Smith, Vice President, Starfire
Lumber Co.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
43 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Opposition

Rudy Fenk
Chair of the Tillamook County Soil and Water Conservation
District
DON’T FALL FOR THEIR SCARE TACTICS. WATER QUALITY
IS SAFE ALREADY.
As Chair of the Tillamook County Soil and Water Conservation
District, I spend my days looking at ways to improve water
quality for the citizens of Tillamook County. After reviewing this
proposal, I’m urging my fellow Oregonians to VOTE NO on
MEASURE 34.

The fact is, Tillamook County will lose MILLIONS. This means
the Soil and Water Conservation District that I run will lose fund-
ing that is essential in protecting the water quality in Tillamook
County. Backers of this irresponsible measure say their plan will
improve water quality, but don’t give a specific plan as to how
cutting funding for water quality improvement in my county will
benefit our residents.
Timber harvests provide funding for Tillamook County. Tillamook
County provides funding for the Soil and Water Conservation
District.

It isn’t hard to connect the dots:
Less timber harvests in Tillamook County means less money for
the County’s water quality improvement projects. Period.
Measure 34’s supporters are trying to scare Tillamook County
residents into believing their drinking water is in danger unless
their plan passes. This is completely untrue. I work every day to
ensure water quality is protected for my family, my neighbors
and every citizen in Tillamook County.

I find it unacceptable that Measure 34’s backers are trying to
scare Oregonians into voting for their proposal.

Tillamook County’s water is safe and clean for our families and
children. Don’t let them make you think otherwise.
JOIN ME IN REJECTING THE ENVIRONMENTALISTS’ SCARE
TACTICS.
VOTE NO ON MEASURE 34.

(This information furnished by Rudy Fenk, Chairman, Tillamook County
Soil and Water Conservation District.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGON CATTLEMEN’S ASSOCIATION: NO on 34

We oppose Measure 34 because we care about Oregon jobs,
our economy and Oregon’s environmental health.

Measure 34 will cost thousands of needed jobs. More than
2,650 family wage jobs will be lost if the measure passes. More
mills will close and rural Oregon will be the worst hit.
Oregonians will lose more than $1 billion of timber value if
Measure 34 passes. The Tillamook and State Forests provide
needed funding through healthy timber harvests. These timber
harvesting provide funding that supports schools throughout
Oregon, local government and environmental program funding.

Measure 34 will harm rather than help the environment. As
cattlemen we are also concerned with healthy habitats and clean
water. Measure 34 would reduce funding available to pay for
important wildlife habitat improvement projects. Passage of the
measure would also dramatically increase the danger of massive

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

fires and the rapid spread of disease in the forests. Millions a
year would be cut from funds to fight forest fires and forest
management budgets.
Measure 34 is irresponsible and extreme. PLEASE VOTE NO.

(This information furnished by Sam Cowart, Oregon Cattlemen’s
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

State Senator Joan Dukes (D-Astoria)
As a State Senator whose district includes the vast majority of
state timber lands, I am opposed to Measure 34. It is an extreme
measure that would do harm to hard working Oregonians and to
the very forests it proposes to protect.
When timber lands were turned over to the state beginning in
1939 it was with the promise that they would be well-managed,
in cooperation with the counties. Future income, it was prom-
ised, would be returned to the counties and other districts in the
area where trees were harvested. This has worked well for 65
years, but Measure 34 would break those promises.
The current management plan was developed by the Oregon
Department of Forestry in a seven-year public process that
involved hundreds of citizens, scientists, foresters and environ-
mental groups. It works. Measure 34 would require that a new
management plan be developed without public input. That
circumvents everything Oregon stands for.
If passed, this measure would cause Oregonians to lose more
than $1 billion of timber value that would otherwise support
schools, local government, fire and water districts, community
colleges and the state’s economy by banning timber harvesting
on most of the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests.

Today’s plan protects sustainable forestry as well as habitat,
watersheds and recreation. The Clatsop and Tillamook Forests
have clean water, abundant wildlife and strong and healthy runs
of fish because of the responsible way the forests are managed.
It is done by experts who know these forests. Simple solutions
like this initiative kill forests, they don’t save them.

Please join me in telling the special interests, bankrolled by
out-of-state foundations, that Oregonians don’t support their
agenda. We want to keep our forests healthy and we don’t break
our promises.
Vote NO on Measure 34.

(This information furnished by State Senator Joan Dukes, District 16.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Measure 34 will lock up more than 250,000 acres of
forestland!
OFPTA Opposes Measure 34, and here are some reasons why:
• Ten million acres of federal forestland in Oregon are already
off-limits to timber harvest management. Measure 34 will lock up
more than 250,000 additional acres of forestland in the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests, tying the hands of respon-
sible foresters who manage our state’s timber resources. This
will ultimately result in the senseless sacrifice of our forests to
catastrophic fires like those that burned in southern and central

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
44 | Statewide Measures

Oregon last summer.
• Since 1989, 163 Oregon sawmills have closed. Passage of
Measure 34 is a guarantee that more mills will close, eliminating
precious family-wage jobs in already hard hit, neighboring rural
communities.
• $5 million will be cut from the Oregon Department of
Forestry’s fire fighting budget. Reduced fire protection in Oregon
puts public forests, private property and our fire fighters at
greater risk.
• Over $1 Billion in timber value will be lost. The resulting loss
of tax revenue to the state will increase taxation on all
Oregonians.

• This reduction in harvest also means that more than 2,000
hard-working Oregonians will also lose a direct or indirectly
related job.
Measure 34 just doesn’t make sense. It’s bad for our forests…
it’s bad for our schools…it’s bad for jobs…and it’s bad for
Oregon tax-payers!

Join the OFPTA in voting NO ON MEASURE 34!
D.E. Bridges
Oregon Forest Products Transportation Association

(This information furnished by D.E. Bridges, Oregon Forest Products
Transportation Association (OFPTA).)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

MEASURE 34 BREAKS A DEAL

Ballot Measure 34 is a breaking of faith with the people of
Tillamook County. It violates the Trust Agreement under which
15 Northwest Oregon Counties deeded their forestlands to the
state for management.

The counties transferred ownership of their lands to the State
of Oregon because the state promised to reforest the lands,
manage them to produce another “forest crop” and share
harvest proceeds with the 15 counties. This was their trust-like
agreement.
Once the lands were under state management the Trust
Counties invested heavily in the promise of future returns in
return for giving the state their lands.

In 1951, when the state needed more money to cover fire
suppression costs, the Trust Counties gave up a share of their
revenues to cover the expense. They did so again in the mid
1960s for additional fire protection. This was followed by addi-
tional county investments in pre-commercial thinning, fertilization
and other forest management activities.

The Trust Counties also agreed to pay back the state’s costs for
reforestation – to date more than $9 million of the $13 million
has been repaid to the state. The Trust Counties also regularly
consent to project work, such as placing fish-friendly culverts,
installing in-stream habitat and improving forest roads: all of
which reduce the counties’ share of the revenues.

State-owned lands don’t produce property taxes and dominate
67 percent of Tillamook County. Property taxes finance local
government services. Almost one-third of the county budget is
funded from state forest revenues. The citizens of Tillamook
County have waited many years for their county to finally secure
the kind of public services that other Oregonians take for
granted.
Today Tillamook County residents stand on the doorstep of
reaching that goal. To break the counties’ deal now through

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

severely limiting timber revenues will be financially devastating.
Measure 34 is unfair, unethical and just plain wrong. Please
vote NO.

(This information furnished by Paul Levesque.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

A Scheme Devised by “Panic Button” Environmentalists
Would Needlessly Devastate Oregon’s Economy.
Citizens for a Sound Economy Strongly Opposes Measure
34!
Measure 34 is an attempt to ban timber harvesting in the
Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests that is being funded by
out-of-state environmentalist organizations. These radical groups
don’t mind costing Oregon thousands of jobs and more than
$1 billion in timber value that would otherwise go to supporting
education and other basic government services all in the name
of the “environment,” despite the fact that many of the policies
contained in Measure 34 could wind up hurting the environment.
In rural Oregon, less timber money means more taxes to
maintain government-funded services.
Right now, timber harvests in the Tillamook and Clatsop State
Forests provide funding for schools and other services in the
surrounding counties, easing the burden for taxpayers in these
areas. But Measure 34 would cut this funding source and create
a significant budget hole that would force taxpayers all over
Oregon to pick up the slack.
“Panic Button” environmentalists don’t have the facts to
back up their argument.
While passage of Measure 34 would certainly cost Oregon jobs
and devastate the state’s economy, there is no proof that it
would necessarily help the environment. In fact, there is signifi-
cant evidence that the environment would actually suffer under
Measure 34 due to an increased danger of massive forest fires,
and the spread of insects and disease.
Let’s say “no” to more taxes and less jobs.

Environmental groups wanting to ban timber harvests on state
forestlands want to leave it up to the rest of the state to fill
budget holes left by this measure.
This measure isn’t good for Oregon, and it’s not good for you.
Measure 34: Less timber revenue means more taxes for all
Oregonians.
Vote NO on MEASURE 34!

(This information furnished by Russ Walker, Citizens for a Sound Economy
PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon Association of Nurseries
Oregon’s Economy Can’t Take It. No on Measure 34.
As a membership organization that represents more than 1,500
nursery stock producers, retailers, landscapers and allied
companies in the nursery and greenhouse industry—we rely on
our fellow Oregonians and Oregon companies to buy and enjoy

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
45 | Statewide Measures

our horticultural products.
We have a special relationship with Oregonians, and we care
about Oregon’s economy. This is why we’re asking our fellow
Oregonians to help us defeat Measure 34, because it doesn’t
add up to a good economic choice for our communities.
For example:

1. Measure 34 guarantees that over 2,600 family-wage

earners in rural Oregon will be left jobless.

2. Measure 34 will ban timber harvests on over 250,000 acres

of forestland.

3. Measure 34 will cause Oregon’s economy to lose $123

million in personal income annually.

4. Measure 34 will cause schools and local governments to
lose $25 million annually without making any provision to
replace those lost dollars.

Without a healthy economy, all of Oregon suffers. The Oregon
Association of Nurseries cannot support a proposal that will
severely damage Oregon’s economy by cutting jobs and taking
money out of the hands of businesses and workers.
Oregon can’t afford Measure 34.

Join us in supporting our customers all over Oregon and VOTE
NO ON MEASURE 34.

(This information furnished by Mark Simmons, Oregon Association of
Nurseries.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Forests and Oregon Jobs at Risk?

You’ve Got to Be Kidding!

By Jack Lamb

It’s true. Measure 34 would leave over 2,600 hard-working
Oregonians jobless. As a Tillamook County resident and timber
industry supporter, I’m asking all my fellow Oregonians to join
me in voting NO ON MEASURE 34.
I have worked in the timber industry for over 20 years in Oregon.
My family, friends and neighbors work in the forests of
Northwest Oregon. Since 1989, we’ve seen over 163 sawmills
close all over rural Oregon, and thousands of hardworking, tax
paying Oregonians be forced out of their jobs.
Not only will people lose their jobs, but our forests will be
put at risk.

Measure 34 will cute $5 million from the Oregon Department of
Forestry’s fire fighting budget. Less money for fighting fires puts
our fire fighting professionals, forests and economy at risk.
The ODF also stands to lose $9 million for forest management
projects, which help protect the forests from insects and
catastrophic disease outbreaks. We can’t afford to neglect our
forests which provide jobs, recreation areas and wildlife habitat
for Oregon.
It just doesn’t make sense.
This plan is just another step the urban environmentalists are
taking to stop all timber harvesting in Oregon. Measure 34 would
cause our state to lose $1 billion in timber revenues. The timber
industry is part of Tillamook County’s heritage and has a place in
Oregon’s economy. We can’t afford to put more Oregonians out
of work and risk forest health.
Help Save our Forests and Rural Oregon Jobs. Vote NO on
MEASURE 34.

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

(This information furnished by Jack Lamb, Tillamook Lumber Company.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon Business Association Urges NO Vote

Measure 34 Is Not the Solution!

The Oregon Business Association (OBA) is a bi-partisan organi-
zation of businesses—large and small, urban and rural—from
across the state. We support a balanced approach to state
public policy, and we support environmentally friendly economic
development in Oregon.
We oppose Measure 34 because it is NOT a balanced approach
to forest management!
The Oregon Board of Forestry, appointed by former Governor
John Kitzhaber, spent seven years creating a harvest plan for the
Tillamook and Clatsop Forests. During that time, many public
hearings were held with all interest groups represented. Now, the
supporters of Measure 34 are seeking to overturn the balanced
public process with a proposal that threatens Oregon’s econ-
omy, especially in rural Oregon.

OBA believes any plan for harvesting state timber should be
reviewed by an independent certification program to ensure both
environmental and economic sustainability. Measure 34 does not
strike the right balance.

OBA believes any plan for harvesting state timber should be
based on the best scientific research available, and should be
guided by a collaboration of stakeholders on all sides of the
issue. Measure 34 does not strike the right balance.

Measure 34 threatens the economic security of local cities and
counties in the region, and the stability of school funding
statewide.

Vote NO on Measure 34

(This information furnished by Lynn Lundquist, President, Oregon
Business Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Governor Kulongoski and Former Governor Vic Atiyeh

Urge Oregonians to Vote NO on Measure 34

Oregon’s success in stewarding its state forests provides an
example of sustainable forest management that balances social,
economic and environmental values important to Oregonians.
Measure 34 would alter that balance and substitute “ballot box”
forestry for the collaborative process that currently guides state
forest management.
In 2001, the Oregon Board of Forestry developed its current plan
for the management of the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests
over the next century. The plan blends scientific knowledge and
advice with the practical forestry field experience of nearly 70
technical experts, independent scientists and resource special-
ists who took part in the planning.
Two separate citizen committees advised the Board on the
development of the plan, and the draft plan was subjected to
two scientific peer reviews. Public input was sought at every
step in the process. More than 1,000 people participated in 36
public meetings and more than 5,000 written comments were

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
46 | Statewide Measures

received on the draft plan and administrative rule. The concept
embodied in Measure 34 was examined and rejected in that
process. Now, proponents are trying to circumvent the process
by bringing their failed plan directly to voters.

Official estimates show losses to local governments and schools
could exceed $25 million a year if Measure 34 is adopted. Funds
to fight forest fires would be cut by more than $5 million a year,
and funds available to habitat restoration and recreation
improvements on the forests also would be lost.
These valuable forestlands are important assets that must be
carefully managed to ensure they will continue to serve the
social, economic and environmental values of Oregonians for
generations to come.
We urge you to reject Measure 34.

Ted Kulongoski
Governor of Oregon

Vic Atiyeh
Governor of Oregon, 1979-1987

(This information furnished by Ted Kulongoski, Governor of Oregon;
Vic Atiyeh, Former Governor of Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGON’S SCHOOLS CAN’T AFFORD MEASURE 34

The numbers don’t lie. Oregon schools will lose money.
Timber harvests in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests gen-
erate education dollars for the entire state. Kids everywhere in
Oregon depend on the money from these resources. If Measure
34 passes, we will all suffer.

MEASURE 34 WILL MEAN MORE SCHOOL BUDGET CUTS

Oregon’s legislature is facing another deficit during the next
biennium. That means the possibility of more cuts to essential
services and schools. After all the cuts schools have already
taken, Measure 34 guarantees that Oregon schools will lose
millions more every year. That’s another blow Oregon’s kids
and schools can’t afford!
And what does losing millions more in school funding every year
mean? It means bigger classes and less attention for our chil-
dren. It means less opportunities for our kids to grow and be
successful. Oregon just can’t afford Measure 34.
Join us in saying “NO” to this unfair, poorly-planned
measure.

PROTECT OREGON’S KIDS! VOTE NO ON MEASURE 34!

Carolyn Ortman, President

Oregon School Boards Association

(This information furnished by Carolyn Ortman, President, Oregon School
Boards Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

PRESERVE RECREATION OPPORTUNITIES IN THE

TILLAMOOK AND CLATSOP STATE FORESTS

VOTE NO ON MEASURE 34

Currently, the Oregon Department of Forestry provides great
opportunities for people to enjoy the Tillamook and Clatsop
State Forests. These recreational opportunities are part of the

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

ODF’s plan to make sure Oregonians get a chance to explore
and enjoy our state forestlands.
Measure 34 won’t expand opportunity, it will cut funds for
existing programs meant to get us out in the forests, and
turn it’s back on existing, historic trails and facilities.
The Board of Forestry adopted the Tillamook Forest Recreation
Plan even before the current forest management plan was
adopted in 2001. The recreation plan outlines how the ODF
develops and manages recreational opportunities. Recreation
volunteers played a key role in designing the existing plan, and
have contributed thousands of hours of volunteer time to help
implement it.

If Measure 34 passes the ODF will be forced to divide the forest
without regard to where these current, historic trails and camp-
grounds are located, or which areas are best suited for future
facilities. The acres that 34 will leave for recreation will be a
fragmented, unworkable patchwork. Funding for recreation pro-
grams like those in the existing plan will also be cut, further
decreasing opportunities for adventure-seeking Oregonians.
Today’s responsible forest management gives us better
access to the forests than under Measure 34.
Conditions for the two most popular sports in the Tillamook,
hunting and Off Highway Vehicle recreation, will worsen.
Federal forests require recreation fees. That’s not what
Oregonians want for our state forests.
Measure 34 will lead to cuts in recreation budgets, forcing the
State to explore access fees.
Measure 34 doesn’t enhance recreation, it restricts it.

These organizations encourage you to vote no on Measure 34:
Oregon Motorcycle Riders Association
Pacific Northwest 4 Wheel Drive Association, Jim Putnam,

President

Oregon State Snowmobile Association
Motorcycle Riders Association, David Lexow, President
International Harvester Scouts & Trucks of Oregon

(This information furnished by Barrett Brown, Oregon Motorcycle Riders
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Measure 34: Threatens critical fish and wildlife habitat.
Portland, Oregon and Santiam River Chapter’s of Safari Club
International

The Portland, Oregon and Santiam River Chapters of Safari Club
International advocate for wildlife, wildlife habitat, and hunter’s
rights in Oregon. After reviewing Measure 34, we have con-
cluded that this plan puts the Tillamook Forest at a greater risk
to catastrophic wildfire and threatens critical fish and wildlife
habitat.

Measure 34 is so poorly written, it ignores the current threat to
critical fish and wildlife habitat that is posed by catastrophic
wildfire. Current forest management practices in the Tillamook
and Clatsop State Forests are some of the best in the nation.
Under Measure 34 those practices and standards would be
bogged down with red tape and constantly under attack by
out-of-state environmental extremists who want to shut our
forests down.

The groups that are proposing Measure 34 are the same ones
that have continuously prevented sensible management in our
National Forests which has led to millions of acres of prime

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
47 | Statewide Measures

habitat being destroyed by wildfire. Make no mistake, Measure
34 is bad for fish, wildlife and their habitat. The only sure way to
properly manage our forests, keep our water clean and protect
critical fish and wildlife habitat is to allow the experts, not
out-of-state environmental extremists to manage them.
Increasing the risk of catastrophic wildfire and threatening
critical fish and wildlife habitat is something we cannot
support.
Help us protect and preserve our forests in Oregon. Vote NO
on Measure 34.

(This information furnished by Robert G. Deveny, President, Portland, OR
Chapter, Wendell Locke, President, Santiam River Chapter; Safari Club
International.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Tillamook Mayor Bob McPheeters Urges a

NO Vote on Measure 34

Don’t Vote to Tighten the Noose on Our Economy! No on 34!

The recession of the past two years devastated Tillamook
County. Businesses closed their doors. Citizens moved away.
Our local services were cut and our quality of life was
diminished.

Now out-of-state special interest groups want to cut more than
2,600 jobs in my area.

Measure 34’s supporters think it’s all right that my neighbors
lose their jobs because they THINK that maybe economic devel-
opment will come to Tillamook County because of our area’s
natural beauty. I’ve got news for them: Tillamook County was
beautiful before, during and after the recession that crippled my
community.

We can’t afford to leave our forest management up to an
untested plan that would cut thousands of jobs, cut $25 million
from our schools and local governments and cut $5 million from
the Oregon Department of Forestry’s fire prevention budget. The
out-of-state environmental groups funding this plan don’t care
about working families in Tillamook County, but I do.

The truth is economic development comes from real business
incentives like an educated workforce, quality schools, tax
breaks and a solid customer base. Measure 34 would make the
state more dependent on tax dollars because of lost timber
revenues and would take over $123 million out of Oregon’s
economy every year.

As Mayor, I work to strengthen and develop the business
community in our area. Measure 34 is simply another attempt at
banning timber harvests in our forests while ruining our rural
economies.
Help me say no to the out-of-state environmental groups
and yes to our fellow Oregonians. NO ON 34!

(This information furnished by Bob McPheeters, Mayor, City of Tillamook.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

2. Then, last year, the state legislature quickly rejected the

same plan:

Associated Oregon Loggers Says NO to Measure 34!
OVER 2,600 HARD WORKING OREGONIANS WILL LOSE
THEIR JOBS
If Measure 34 passes, over 2,600 Oregonians will be left jobless.
This is because more lumber mills will close and over $25 million
will be stripped from our local governments and schools each
year.
50-50 ISN’T FAIR AND IT ENDANGERS OUR FORESTS

The 50-50 plan sounds fair, but there are large parts of the forest
that are protected by state and federal laws. If you add those
lands into the equation, this measure actually puts over 60
percent of the forest off-limits to timber harvests.

In addition to banning timber harvests on over 250,000 acres of
forests, the Oregon Department of Forestry will actually lose
$9 million each year for forest management programs that
protect our forests from insects and disease.
MEASURE 34 WAS REJECTED TWICE BEFORE
The 50-50 plan was considered and rejected by a team of
leading scientists, forestry experts and environmental and timber
industry advocates. Seven years of planning produced the
current forestry plan, which includes the interests of everyone in
Oregon. Then, last year, the legislature refused to act on this
dangerous proposal because of the potentially crippling effects
on our economy.
$5 MILLION LESS FOR FOREST FIRE PROTECTION
Measure 34 will cut over $5 million from the ODF’s forest fire
fighting budget. This means less protection for our fire fighters,
rural homes and precious timberlands.
FOR THE SAKE OF OREGON JOBS AND FORESTS, PLEASE
VOTE NO ON MEASURE 34.
IT DOESN’T ADD UP.

(This information furnished by Jim Geisinger, Executive Vice President,
Associated Oregon Loggers, Inc.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Ballot Measure 34 is Not Good Public Policy

As Mayor of one of Oregon’s largest cities, it’s my job to con-
sider the needs of all residents in my area. Quick fixes almost
never work. Measure 34 is a short-sighted view of forest man-
agement practices that attempts to undo years of sound and
well-tested policies.
The present Oregon Department of Forestry’s plan took seven
years to develop. It included input from three panels of world-
renowned scientists from a broad cross-section of fields and
disciplines. Public input was heavily solicited for the project –
the plan evolved and improved because of extensive public
input. From my experience serving Beaverton citizens the last
12 years as Mayor, I recognize this as sound public policy.

Measure 34 is “ballot box forestry” at its worst and no way to
manage the delicate balance of our state forests. This ballot
measure is an irrational plan that backers have pushed for the
third time:

1. Known as the “50-50” plan, the Oregon Department of

Forestry’s panel of scientists, citizens, timber and environ-
mental interests rejected this scheme;

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
48 | Statewide Measures

3. Now, as a last resort, the plan’s supporters are

masquerading their proposal as a “balanced” initiative
and tout it as an “innocent” change to our current forest
management plan.

Because the plan will so severely cut back the current well-
managed and balanced timber harvesting practices, over 2,600
Oregonians will be jobless and cut $5 million from the Oregon
Department of Forestry fire prevention programs. In addition,
schools and local governments in four counties will lose up to
$25 million per year without replacement revenues. This is just
plain unfair and damaging for basic local services.
The Beaverton City Council joins me in asking you to vote “no”
on this plan (Beaverton City Council resolution August 23, 2004)
– it is an irresponsible effort at “ballot box forestry” that harms
many residents and the local economy.

(This information furnished by Rob Drake, Mayor, City of Beaverton.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

A Threat to Oregon’s Environment and Economy

Measure 34

Measure 34 Damages Oregon’s Economy—Especially Rural
Oregon

The timber harvest ban proposed in this measure would cost

Oregon’s economy $123 million in personal income per year
through the loss of 2,650 Oregon jobs. Ten million acres of fed-
eral forestlands in Oregon are already off limits to timber harvest.
Now Measure 34 proposes to ban harvests on more than
250,000 more acres of state forestlands.
Measure 34 Hurts the Environment and Eliminates the
Compromise

The Biscuit Fire in Grants Pass and the Bear Butte and Booth

fires outside of Sisters both caused the shut down of main
arteries into town, which cut down business by 60-70 percent
during those months. Management and regulated harvest of
forests is necessary to prevent these fires. Foresters have
warned that Measure 34, will dramatically increase the danger of
massive forest fires in the Tillamook and Clatsop State Forests.
This would damage the environment and the economy.

The current plan, developed with public, professional and
environmental input over a seven-year process, is safe and
effective. Measure 34 requires that the biology department
chairs at three Oregon universities pick a committee to draft a
new management plan—without public input.
Measure 34 Hurts Schools and Local Governments

Oregonians would lose more than $1 billion of timber value
that would otherwise support schools, local government, and
the state’s economy if Measure 34 is passed. Measure 34 would
reduce the amount of revenue received by all Oregon schools by
$26 million a year, and would reduce all revenues provided
through timber harvesting to the state, counties and schools by
$70 million a year.
Measure 34 presents a dangerous threat to the Oregon
environment and economy.
A decrease in job availability and an increase in the threat of
forest fires would be devastating to the Oregon economy and
environment, and must be prevented through the halt of
Measure 34.
Vote NO on 34.

(This information furnished by Bill Perry, Oregon Restaurant Association.)

continued ➔

Measure 34 Arguments

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

SEIU, Local 503 Urges a NO vote on Measure 34

We support the following recommendations in the Oregon

AFL-CIO’s position paper on forest management:
i) Maintain and enhance basic protections for the environment,
water quality, key watersheds, threatened and endangered
species habitat, public health, and occupational health and
safety.
ii) Move away from low-bid contracting and toward cost-
effective innovations in contracting such as: a) “Best-Value”
contracts with local preference criteria, b) Service contracts with
an embedded timber sale, c) “Bundling” that combines multiple
tasks over a longer contract period, d) Indefinite delivery
indefinite quantity contracts; and e) Stewardship contracting
authorities which may also include goods-for-services, and
retention of receipts, and other innovations. These are cost-
effective approaches that ensure quality performance, while
encouraging contractors to employ a higher-skilled workforce,
provide training and create jobs that are longer in duration.

iii) Promote federal-state partnerships to gain economies of scale
on projects and to tap into a variety of funding sources.

iv) Provide standards for living wages (prevailing wages), health
care coverage and participation of contractors in a certified
apprenticeship program for ecosystem restoration workers.
Program and project budgets should include apprenticeship-
training set-asides

The state management plan for the forests in question has

been in effect for just three years. We are generally supportive of
that plan. Our members who work in the forests are striving to
implement the existing plan in such a way that it makes the
forest healthier for recreation, wildlife, and the economy.

The existing management plan was developed through a

lengthy process in which labor had a voice. The plan does not
satisfy everyone who has a stake in the process, but we believe
that forest management should not be the result of the initiative
process. We urge voters to oppose Measure 34.

(This information furnished by Arthur Towers, Service Employees
International Union Local 503, OPEU.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
49 | Statewide Measures

(4) The limit of noneconomic damages under subsection (2)
shall be redetermined annually for each year after the effective
date of this amendment in accordance with the following
formula:

Limit of noneconomic damages = $500,000 + [$500,000.00
x ((Annual CPI - Base Year CPI) ÷ Base Year CPI)]

(5) The first business day following February 1st of each year

after the effective date of this amendment, the State Court
Administrator shall, using the Index identified in subsection (1)
and the equation set forth in subsection (4), determine the limit
of noneconomic damages; and shall on the same date notify
the clerks of each of the Circuit Courts what the limit of non-
economic damages shall be from that date until the date of the
next annual determination.

(6) The term “economic damages” as used in this section

shall mean all objectively verifiable monetary losses including
but not limited to reasonable charges necessarily incurred for
medical, hospital, nursing and rehabilitative services and other
health care services, burial and memorial expenses, loss of
income and past and future impairment of earning capacity,
reasonable and necessary expenses incurred for substitute
domestic services, recurring loss to an estate and damage to
reputation that is economically verifiable. 

(7) The term “noneconomic damages” as used in this section

shall mean all subjective nonmonetary losses suffered by an
injured patient, including but not limited to pain, mental suffer-
ing, emotional distress, loss of care, comfort, companionship
and society, loss of consortium, inconvenience and interference
with normal and usual activities apart from gainful employment. 
(8) This amendment is self-executing upon passage, shall not

require implementing legislation, and shall apply to all actions
covered by subsection (2) that are filed on or after January 1,
2005.

Measure 35

Proposed by initiative petition to be voted on at the General
Election, November 2, 2004.

Ballot Title35

AMENDS CONSTITUTION: LIMITS NONECONOMIC
DAMAGES (DEFINED) RECOVERABLE FOR PATIENT
INJURIES CAUSED BY HEALTHCARE PROVIDER’S
NEGLIGENCE OR RECKLESSNESS
RESULT OF “YES” VOTE: “Yes” vote limits recovery of non-
economic damages (defined) for negligent or reckless injury to
patient by healthcare provider to $500,000 (adjusted annually
for inflation).
RESULT OF “NO” VOTE: “No” vote retains current law, which
places no limit on jury award of noneconomic damages (defined)
for injury caused by negligence, recklessness of healthcare
provider.
SUMMARY: Amends constitution. Under current law, there is
generally no limit on jury’s award of noneconomic damages to
patient, patient’s legal representative, or patient’s spouse for
injury caused by healthcare provider. Measure limits recovery of
noneconomic damages for negligent or reckless injury caused
by an Oregon licensed healthcare provider or healthcare entity to
$500,000. Defines noneconomic damages to include pain; men-
tal suffering; emotional distress; loss of society, companionship,
services; loss of sexual relations; inconvenience; interference
with normal and usual activities apart from employment.
Specifies formula to adjust for inflation annually. Limitation
applies regardless of extent of injuries, number of people entitled
to damages, or number of defendants sued. Does not apply to
wrongful death claims. Applies to suits filed after January 1,
2005. Other provisions.
ESTIMATE OF FINANCIAL IMPACT: There is no financial effect
on state or local government expenditures or revenues.

Text of Measure

Section ____. (1) For purposes of this amendment, the follow-

ing definitions shall apply:

(a) “Base Year CPI” shall mean the monthly Consumer Price
Index for All Urban Consumers Not Seasonally Adjusted in the
West Urban area, published by the United States Department of
Labor for December of the year preceding the effective date of
this amendment.

(b) “Annual CPI” shall mean the monthly Consumer Price

Index for All Urban Consumers Not Seasonally Adjusted in the
West Urban area, published by the United States Department of
Labor for December of the year preceding the date of the annual
determination specified in subsection (5). 

(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Constitution, in
cases not involving claims for wrongful death, an injured patient,
the patient’s legal representative, including a person claiming
loss of consortium, shall be entitled to make a claim for recovery
of all economic damages suffered, plus an amount not to
exceed $500,000 for all noneconomic damages arising from
injury to any one patient that may be recoverable from Oregon
licensed healthcare providers or entities. This limitation of
noneconomic damages shall apply only to claims for unintended
injury occurring when the healthcare providers or entities are
acting within the scope of their licenses.

(3) Nothing in this section affects the right of any person to

recover economic damages.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
50 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 35
Explanatory Statement

The Oregon Constitution currently acts to prohibit limitations

on awards of noneconomic damages in many types of civil
actions.

Ballot Measure 35 would amend the Oregon Constitution to

impose a limit on noneconomic damages that may be claimed in
certain actions. The measure applies to claims made by injured
patients and legal representatives of injured patients, including
persons claiming loss of consortium (the loss of the company,
affection, assistance and sexual relations of a spouse). The
limitation applies only to claims made by such persons against
healthcare providers and healthcare entities licensed in Oregon,
for injuries incurred while the provider or entity was acting within
the scope of the license. The limitation applies to claims based
on negligence or recklessness, but does not apply to claims
based on intentional injury. Nor does it limit claims for wrongful
death.

If a claim is subject to Ballot Measure 35, the measure would
impose a limitation of $500,000 (adjusted annually for inflation)
on the amount that can be claimed as noneconomic damages
arising from injury to any one patient that may be recoverable
from health care providers or entities. Noneconomic damages
are defined as all subjective nonmonetary losses suffered by an
injured patient, including but not limited to pain, mental suffer-
ing, emotional distress, loss of care, comfort, companionship
and society, loss of consortium, inconvenience and inter-
ference with the normal and usual activities apart from gainful
employment.

Ballot Measure 35 does not limit the recovery of economic

damages, defined by the measure to be all objectively verifiable
monetary losses including but not limited to reasonable charges
necessarily incurred for medical, hospital, nursing and rehabilita-
tive services and other health care services, burial and memorial
expenses, loss of income and past and future impairment of
earning capacity, reasonable and necessary expenses incurred
for substitute domestic services, recurring loss to an estate and
damage to reputation that is economically verifiable.

Ballot Measure 35 provides for adjustment in the amount of
the limitation based on changes in the Consumer Price Index
for All Urban Consumers Not Seasonally Adjusted in the West
Urban area, as published by the United States Department of
Labor. The State Court Administrator is charged with determin-
ing the amount of the limitation each year under the formula
provided in the measure.

Ballot Measure 35 does not require implementing legislation

and applies to all actions filed on or after January 1, 2005.

Committee Members:
Jim Dorigan
Paul Frisch
Steve Berman
Steve Novick
Jacob Tanzer

Appointed by:
Chief Petitioners
Chief Petitioners
Secretary of State
Secretary of State
Members of the Committee

(This committee was appointed to provide an impartial explanation of the
ballot measure pursuant to ORS 251.215.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
51 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments
Argument in Favor

previously worked in Oregon for over a decade. If passed,
Measure 35 will:

Oregon Medical Insurance System is in Crisis…Again!
Lack of access to health care is a major problem. In Oregon,
doctors’ medical insurance costs have skyrocketed. We have
been in this position before and we developed a common sense
solution that worked.

Oregon History Show Caps Work

During the mid-1980s, medical insurance costs were
skyrocketing and endangering doctors’ ability to maintain their
practices, much like the current situation. I was the incoming
President of the Oregon Medical Association in 1987 and led the
fight to reform our medical insurance system and protect our
patients’ access to health care. Realizing the danger, the Oregon
Legislature passed sensible reform that placed a $500,000 cap
on all non-economic damage awards. It was a bi-partisan
solution addressing a crisis that delivered results.
From 1987 until 1999, the system worked exceptionally well
and lowered liability insurance premiums, while still ensuring
injured parties access to a jury trial and fair compensation for
economic damages. In 1999 the limit was reversed by the
Oregon Supreme Court and Oregonians once again found their
health care access in jeopardy.
Oregon is now in the exact same crisis it was in the mid-
1980s and we have come to the people to offer them the
same solution that has already worked once for our state.

Caps on Non-Economic Damages Worked and

Will Work Again.

Caps lower medical insurance rates, lower overall health care
costs, ensure full compensation for economic hardships for vic-
tims, and ensure that the next time a baby needs to be delivered
there is a doctor there to do it.

• Ensure all Oregonians have access to affordable and

reliable health care

• Allow doctors to continue practicing
• Limit only non-economic damages to $500,000
• Reinstate a cap system that worked in Oregon
• Discourage frivolous lawsuits
• Maintain every Oregonian’s right to a jury trial
• Places no limits on jury awards for economic damages
• Save taxpayers millions of dollars each year

If we do not act now, Oregonian’s will continue to lose access
to medical care. Here is what will happen if we allow greedy
personal injury lawyers, and their misinformation, to maintain the
status quo:

• Patients will not have access to critical health care all

over the state

• Oregon will continue to lose doctors
• Health care costs will continue to rise
• More and more frivolous lawsuits will be filed as lawyers

try to hit the “medical insurance jackpot”

Supporting Measure 35 is just a clear cut case of “common
sense.” Vote to protect patient access, vote to protect the
Oregon health care system…VOTE YES ON MEASURE 35!

John Moorhead, M.D.
President
Oregon Medical Association

(This information furnished by John Moorhead, M.D., President, Oregon
Medical Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Your Help is Needed to Save Oregon’s Quality

Health Care System

Argument in Favor

As the former President of the Oregon Medical Association and
an OB/GYN that has never been sued in 30 years of practice, I
know how badly this is hurting our health care system. Please
support Measure 35 and help keep doctors in Oregon.

Richard Allen, M.D.
Former President, 1988-1989
Oregon Medical Association

(This information furnished by Richard Allen, M.D., Former President
1988-1989, Oregon Medical Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Measure 35 is Just What the Doctor Ordered

As President of the Oregon Medical Association, representing
over 7,000 Oregon doctors, I urge you to please VOTE YES ON
MEASURE 35.
Oregon’s medical insurance system is in a state of crisis.
Skyrocketing medical insurance rates are causing doctors to
leave Oregon and/or limit the services they provide. We are
having great difficulty recruiting new doctors into our state. The
result is that all Oregonians are having difficulty accessing health
care services. If we want to maintain our high level of care, we
must take action now.

Measure 35 will help Oregon avert a pending disaster by
reinstating a $500,000 cap on non-economic damages that

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
52 | Statewide Measures

Doctors, Nurses, Hospitals and Senior Services Providers

Support Measure 35

Our organizations represent doctors, nurses, hospitals and
senior service providers…that is over 7,000 doctors, 10,000
nurses, 59 hospitals, and 500 senior care facilities that serve
over 24,000 elderly and disabled individuals. We are urging you,
on behalf of our members, to support Measure 35.

Medical Insurance Rates Driving Doctors Out Of Business

Right now Oregon is experiencing a medical insurance crisis.
Medical insurance rates are skyrocketing and driving doctors
and some nurse practitioners out of business. This means that
the next time a baby needs to be delivered, a head trauma
needs to be treated or someone is injured in rural Oregon, there
may not be a health care professional there to help.
One way to regain control of the situation is to pass Measure 35
and reinstate a $500,000 cap on non-economic damages, a cap
that worked in Oregon for over a decade.

Measure 35 Works in Oregon

• Will protect patient access and ensure that doctors are

• Reduced doctor insurance rates and will work again.
• Will reduce medical insurance rates for all health care

available.

providers.

awards.

• Will reduce overall health care costs.
• Allows juries to award unlimited economic damages.
• Ensures fair compensation while preventing outlandish jury

• Will help control frivolous lawsuits.
Oregon Health Care Community Supports Measure 35

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

Oregon’s health care providers have come together to protect
our patients’ access to health care and to make sure that our
providers can continue to practice in Oregon. Please support our
medical health care system by voting for Measure 35.

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Jo Bryson, Executive Director
Oregon Medical Association

Susan King
Oregon Nurses Association

Argument in Favor

Ken Rutledge
Oregon Association of
Hospitals and Health Systems O regon Health Care Association

James Carlson
Executive Director

(This information furnished by Ken Rutledge, Oregon Association of
Hospitals and Health Systems.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

There are some things we take for granted: eyesight is one of

them. Another is having access to a physician. Like our eyesight,

we probably won’t miss our doctors until they are gone.

Don’t let the current crisis become a disaster.

CAN YOU SEE THE PROBLEM?

• Between 1999 and 2003 medical liability premiums have

increased 75%!

• Since the cap on non-economic damages was removed

jury awards have risen 65% while cases settled out of
court have increased exponentially.

• Doctors are being forced out of practice: reducing
patient access to care and proving that the current
system is in need of reform.

IS IT CLEARER NOW?

The problem is coming into focus…

Unfortunately, medical malpractice laws favor lawyers over
both patient and physician. We can correct this by capping

non-economic damages at $500,000.

• Installing a cap on non-economic damages will allow

for just compensation while protecting the medical
community from frivolous and capricious lawsuits.

• A cap will remove the incentive for lawyers to drive up

the plaintiff’s claims in order to pad their own paycheck.

• Caps once worked in Oregon and will work in Oregon

again.

Oregonians deserve the best possible eye care from the

best-trained professionals. Help keep these professionals in

practice and in state, 

VOTE YES ON 35!

Here at the Oregon Optometric Physicians Association we know

the value of clear vision. We can clearly see that the medical
tort system in Oregon is being abused by trial lawyers blind
to the impact their greed has had on the quality of health

care in Oregon. We have watched as our friends and

colleagues have been forced to stop high risk
procedures because the cost of malpractice

insurance is so high. Don’t take your

physicians for granted because,

like your eyesight, they are

too dear to lose!

THE OREGON OPTOMETRIC PHYSICIANS ASSOCIATION

(This information furnished by Wayne Schumacher, Executive Director,
Oregon Optometric Physicians Association.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
53 | Statewide Measures

County Medical Societies Across Oregon

Supports Measure 35

Right now, patients throughout Oregon are in danger of losing
access to critical health care services because doctors are being
driven out of practice at an alarming rate. Skyrocketing medical
insurance rates, caused by outrageous jury awards, are making
it difficult for doctors to continue practicing…depriving you of
vital care.

Measure 35 helps solve the problem by reinstating a cap system
that worked in Oregon before…and will work again. The
$500,000 cap enacted by this measure will help ensure reason-
able jury awards for subjective items, like emotional pain and
suffering, while ensuring fair compensation for all economic
hardships. Measure 35 is just common sense.

The County Medical Societies of Oregon represent the practicing
doctors of Oregon, we urge you to VOTE YES ON MEASURE
35!

Central Oregon Medical Society

Clackamas County Medical Society

Clatsop County Medical Society
Curry County Medical Society
Lane County Medical Society

Malheur County Medical Society

Marion-Polk County Medical Society

Medical Society of Metropolitan Portland

Washington County Medical Society

(This information furnished by Jim Kronenberg, Oregon Medical
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon Association of Hospitals and Health Systems

Support Measure 35

Help Medical Providers Protect Your Access to Health Care
Oregon’s hospitals support Measure 35. You should, too.
Measure 35 would help protect your access to health care by
placing a $500,000 limit on non-economic damages, which
include things like emotional pain and suffering.

Measure 35 does nothing to take away a jury’s ability to award
compensation to victims for their economic hardships, such as
lost wages, medical expenses, child care costs and any other
future costs that must be incurred because of an injury.

The question of medical insurance is complex and confusing.
The opposition is doing everything possible to confuse the issue
by making it appear that Measure 35 would limit any awards in
medical insurance cases to $500,000. They continue to do this
even though they know the facts just do not support their
claims.

Juries Still Important

Economic and non-economic damages are both involved in
every malpractice case but each has a very specific role.
Measure 35 ensures that every Oregonian can receive fair com-
pensation for any medical injury by protecting a jury’s ability to

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

award any economic compensation they deem necessary. The
opposition wants you to think that Measure 35 would take away
the necessities of life for people who have been injured.
Measure 35 would restore sanity and stability to a system that
has been steadily deteriorating, while still ensuring that injured
patients are fairly compensated for their losses. Soaring com-
pensation awards are seriously impacting our state’s ability to
provide health care access – especially in rural areas -- as more
doctors choose to limit their practice or simply relocate out of
state. It is also negatively affecting our ability to recruit new doc-
tors to our state.
As Chairman of the organization representing Oregon’s
Hospitals, I urge you to join us in supporting Measure 35.
Larry A. Mullins, DHA
Chairman
Oregon Association of Hospitals and Health Systems 

(This information furnished by Larry Mullins, DHA, Chairman, Oregon
Association of Hospitals and Health Systems.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon Nurses Association Supports Measure 35

The Oregon Nurses Association represents over 10,000 nurses
across the state.
After lengthy debate, an open forum and extensive research, the
Oregon Nurses Association has endorsed Ballot Measure 35.
This is a critically important matter and we studied it with the
seriousness that it deserved.

The ONA Extensive Research Found:

It is important to restore the $500,000 cap on non-economic

medical malpractice awards.

This is a reasonable first step that helps return stability to the

medical insurance system while ensuring that victims are

properly protected in cases of malpractice.

The unpredictability of future costs can be expected to cause

further reduction in access unless reforms are instituted.

Escalating medical malpractice premiums, including those for
physicians and some nurses, are causing providers to restrict

the services they offer or to leave practice altogether.

Both of these outcomes negatively impact access to

health care for many Oregonians.

Measure 35 is the First Step Towards a Larger Solution
ONA expects that a cap on non-economic damages alone will
not entirely solve the problem but will become one part of a
package of solutions to reduce the cost of medical insurance
premiums for health care providers. We are asking for you to
support Oregon’s nurses by voting YES on Measure 35.

Debbie Cassell
President of the Oregon Nurses Association

(This information furnished by Debbie Cassell, President, Oregon Nurses
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

OREGON’S ELDERLY AND DISABLED NEED A YES VOTE ON

BALLOT MEASURE 35

The Oregon Alliance of Senior & Health Services is the statewide
association of not-for-profit, mission-directed organizations
dedicated to providing quality housing, care and services to the
elderly and disabled. Alliance members – nursing homes,
residential care, assisted living, housing and continuing care
retirement facilities, as well as senior service agencies -- serve
more than 13,000 older Oregonians.

Measure 35 Helps Ensure Elderly Access To

Comprehensive Health Care

The Alliance endorses measure 35. Since the 1990s nursing
homes have become one of the fastest growing areas of health
care litigation. Extensive and unabated litigation against
providers of aging services and heavy losses on liability insur-
ance policies have resulted in skyrocketing insurance premiums.
The lawsuits and rise in insurance rates have led to the absurd
situation where resources are drained away from resident care in
facilities with no or little history of claims. This isn’t right – limited
dollars should go to resident care.
This crisis was averted once before with a $500,000 cap on
non-economic damages. The Alliance recognizes that this
common sense solution worked before. The good news for us
is that it WILL work again.
Measure 35 simply restores the $500,000 cap (adjusted for
inflation) on non-economic damages. We will see lower
premiums, we will see resources being spent where it should –
on resident care – instead of skyrocketing premiums!

Exercise Your Right To Affect Real Change

With Your Yes Vote

Our main goal is providing the highest quality of life for seniors
and the disabled…we feel strongly that Measure 35 will help us
accomplish this by bringing health care reform back to Oregon.
This ballot measure is a critical first step to addressing a health
care system that for all of us is spiraling into a tailspin. Help
protect vital health care for our seniors by voting YES on 35.

Ruth Gulyas
Oregon Alliance of Senior and Health Services

(This information furnished by Ruth Gulyus, Oregon Alliance of Senior and
Health Services.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon Is Losing Doctors

Doctors’ malpractice insurance rates are becoming so expensive
that many doctors, especially those in rural areas and high-risk
practices, are being forced to relocate or stop providing risky
services.

“My family doctor was forced to stop delivering babies by

My Personal Story

insurance rates. I live in Reedsport, Oregon, and recently had my
second child. In order to get the prenatal care I needed, I was
forced to travel over 60 miles round trip. I had to make the same
trip while I was in active labor. It’s ridiculous to have to bypass
my local hospital because insurers wouldn’t let them care for
me.

“Ironically, I am also a doctor who had to give up delivering

babies. Two years ago, all deliveries and prenatal care in
Reedsport ended because it became impossible to find a doctor

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
54 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

who could afford the insurance to perform an emergency
caesarian section. Without the necessary emergency coverage,
all deliveries were forced to stop. Skyrocketing insurance rates
prevent me from getting and giving needed care locally.”

Janet Patin, MD
Recent Mother, Family Physician

Measure 35 is Critical

If we pass Measure 35, we will reinstate a $500,000 cap on
non-economic damages. Isn’t that enough? This cap worked
exceptionally well in Oregon for over a decade, and it will work
again.

Everyone Pays if Measure 35 Fails

Huge jury awards don’t weed out bad doctors, they just raise
insurance premiums for everyone. Fewer doctors are willing to
work here or provide high-risk services. Don’t you expect excel-
lent care if you have an accident on vacation? Don’t you expect
to get in to see a doctor when you need to? That could all go
away if we don’t pass Measure 35.

Vote YES on 35

As both a mother and doctor forced to stop delivering
babies, I urge you to vote “YES” on Measure 35…because
without 35, access to the care of a local doctor may end.

(This information furnished by Janet E. Patin, MD.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

RURAL OREGONIANS ARE HARDEST HIT

BY MEDICAL ACCESS CRISIS

Right now rural Oregonians are in danger of losing adequate
access to critical medical care because of doctors’ skyrocketing
medical insurance rates. Access for some has already become
an issue. If we do not address this access problem more rural
Oregonians will be forced to travel sixty or more miles just to see
a doctor.

MEASURE 35 PROTECTS THE FAMILIES OF FARMERS,

RANCHERS, AND LOGGERS

The people who will be most devastated will be Oregon’s
farmers, ranchers, loggers and anyone else who makes a living
where there are already very limited options for medical care.

MEDICAL CARE OPTIONS CONTINUE TO SHRINK

It is the critical specialties that are losing doctors at the most
alarming rates. This includes doctors who deliver babies, neuro-
surgeons and trauma doctors. If we do not act now to address
this problem, we will have turned our back on every rural
Oregonian.

DO YOU EVER TRAVEL IN RURAL OREGON?

Rural Oregonians deal with this growing medical dilemma on a
continual basis, but how often do you travel east of Portland or
south of Eugene? Next time you’re driving outside a major city,
think about what would happen should you have a medical
emergency or accident in rural Oregon. What will you do if there
are no medical specialists left to help you, your spouse or chil-
dren if critically injured?

MEASURE 35 IS PART OF THE SOLUTION TO

MEDICAL INSURANCE REFORM

MEASURE 35 IS A STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION

MEASURE 35 RESTORES A SYSTEM THAT LOWERED

MEDICAL PREMIUMS FOR OVER A DECADE

MEASURE 35 WILL KEEP DOCTORS PRACTICING IN SMALL

COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE STATE

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
55 | Statewide Measures

Show your support of our ranchers, farmers, and loggers

and protect your family by

VOTING YES ON MEASURE 35.
Oregonians for Food and Shelter 
Oregon Farm Bureau Federation
Associated Oregon Loggers, Inc.
American Forest Resource Council

(This information furnished by Terry Witt, Oregonians for Food and
Shelter.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Communities are being forced to sacrifice health care

Who is it that you trust with your health? For many in Oregon, it
is their family physician. Possibly even the same one they have
seen since they were children. Unfortunately, for many
Oregonians, their choice of who will be available to provide for
their health care needs is being limited.

Oregonians are offered a solution NOW

Since the cap on non-economic damages was removed in 1999
physician insurance premiums have increased at an alarming
rate, forcing some doctors to limit their services or leave their
practices altogether. Ultimately, this means that communities
have to make sacrifices on their health care options – leading to
an access crisis.

• Oregon’s system is in jeopardy. Without common sense

steps toward reform, we are at risk of losing access to vital
health care.

• A cap on non-economic damages is a reasonable step

toward returning stability to the medical insurance market.
• This is a solution that has worked before while protecting

patients, the jury system and stabilizing the insurance
market.

Only caps non-economic damages

Economic and non-economic damages are not interchangeable:
each has its own special role in compensating the plaintiff.
Economic damages have a measurable impact such as lost
wages, related medical expenses, future medical expenses, and
other related costs. Non-economic damages include consid-
erations like pain and suffering which are totally subjective.
These are two distinctly separate award categories, and anyone
that tells you otherwise is simply attempting to confuse the
facts.

Now is the time to vote for a change

Oregon voters have a chance now to reform the current system
and to ensure that all patients have access to critical health care
when they need it. This is why the Oregon Academy of Family
Physicians encourages a YES vote on Measure 35.

Measure 35 will restore the system that once worked

in Oregon and will work in Oregon again.

Oregon Academy of Family Physicians

(This information furnished by James Chesnutt, MD, Oregon Academy of
Family Physicians.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments
Argument in Favor

Oregon Small Business Coalition

Supports Measure 35

The Oregon Small Business Coalition, which is made up of thou-
sands of businesses from across the state, support Measure 35
and urges you to VOTE YES ON 35.

Measure 35 is Good for Business

• Employers pay millions of dollars each year to insure

themselves and their employees.

• Skyrocketing medical liability insurance rates are forcing

doctors to limit their practice or leave the state which
restricts Oregon’s workers access to care.

• Restricting access to health care affects the productivity of
a business and its employees, hurting everybody’s bottom
line.

• The same rising insurance rates are adding to the increas-

ing cost of medical care.

• Medical liability insurance rates began to rise in 1999

because the $500,000 cap on non-economic damages was
removed.

• Reinstating the $500,000 cap on non-economic

damages will rein in the ever increasing awards for
emotional pain and suffering.

• A study by the U.S. Health and Human Services

Department noted limiting these large awards on
non-economic damages will reduce overall health care
costs by at least 5%.

• A minimum of a 5% decrease will save small busi-

nesses millions of dollars in medical expenses each
year.

Measure 35 is the First Part of a Greater Solution

Measure 35 will not cure all the ills of Oregon’s health care
system, but it is a great start. This is just the beginning of a
larger discussion regarding complete reform of our health care
system. However, if we can not agree to return to a system that
has already worked for our state, what hope do we have for truly
reforming our system. Measure 35 is the right thing to do,
please remember that when you cast your vote on
November 2nd.
OREGON SMALL BUSINESS COALITION

(This information furnished by Darrell Fuller, Oregon Small Business
Coalition.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

PROTECT ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE

At 15, I decided to become an obstetrician/gynecologist when I
grew up. Yet, five years after launching the medical practice I’d
dreamed of, I became part of a statewide trend. Despite never
being named in a lawsuit, I stopped delivering babies. Soaring
malpractice insurance rates and fear of litigation have forced
more than 125 Oregon physicians and midwives to make the
same decision. Another 250 plan to stop delivering babies within
five years.

Physicians in high-risk specialties are being forced to limit
essential services or leave Oregon. Despite inflated figures cited
by Measure 35 opponents, Oregon has a critical doctor

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
56 | Statewide Measures

shortage. Many believe that only “bad” doctors need to be
concerned about being sued. The truth is 75% of all Ob/Gyns
will be sued during their careers – not because they are bad
doctors but because they provide high-risk services.

This crisis affects all Oregonians:

• Access to health care has been greatly reduced. High-
risk procedures are especially hard to come by. In fact, a
vast majority of Oregon is without neurosurgeons, requiring
patients with severe head injuries to be transferred greater
distances for trauma care, compromising chances for
recovery and survival.

• Fewer physicians providing high-risk services means

higher health care costs. Even those who can still afford
health care may not find physicians to provide it.

Measure 35 provides a common-sense solution:

• Fair compensation for lost wages, future earnings, medical

bills and actual expenses in medical malpractice cases.

• A $500,000 cap only for “pain and suffering” awards. Since

such caps were removed in 1999, insurance rates have
skyrocketed as jury awards have increased 65% while the
number of patient complaints has stayed about the same.

Last year 22 states passed tort reform. Oregon must be next!
VOTE YES ON MEASURE 35!
Melissa Edwards, M.D.
Women’s Care Physicians & Surgeons

(This information furnished by Melissa D. Edwards, M.D., Women’s Care
Physicians & Surgeons.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

BABIES IN RURAL OREGON ARE MORE LIKELY

TO HAVE LOW BIRTH WEIGHT.

THE DEATH RATE IN RURAL AREAS IS 20% HIGHER THAN

THE REST OF OREGON.

Shocking, isn’t it? But despite these dire facts, Oregon doctors
are trying harder than ever to practice in rural Oregon. The rising
cost of medical malpractice insurance has been driving physi-
cians away from the areas where they are needed most: leaving
nearly half of Oregon’s population in the lurch. Even when there
are doctors that want to practice in rural Oregon, they are having
a hard time of getting one of the two insurers in the state to
issue them a policy. The Oregon Rural Health Association has
witnessed the impact of the epidemic of frivolous lawsuits and
as it stands:

• Rural doctors work longer hours than their urban

• The ratio of population to doctors is nearly 7 times that of

counterparts.

an urban setting.

AND IT IS GETTING WORSE

• 29.2% of the remaining doctors in rural areas are being
forced to stop providing high-risk services due to rising
insurance rates.

• This means fewer doctors delivering babies and fewer

doctors performing life saving surgeries.

THE KEY TO PROPER TREATMENT IS ACCESS

And there can be no access when doctors continue to be driven
away by the outrageous malpractice insurance rates that result
from the frivolous lawsuits filed by greedy trial lawyers.

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

What can you do to help? You can vote YES on 35.

• Measure 35 will restore reason to the system by putting a

$500,000 cap on non-economic damages.

• Measure 35 will protect the patient’s access to health

• Measure 35 will protect injured patients’ right to just

care.

compensation.

The situation has already gotten out of hand, we need to act
NOW to protect health care for all Oregonians. We need to vote
“YES” on 35.
Oregon Rural Health Association

(This information furnished by E.E. “Ed” Patterson, Executive Director,
Oregon Rural Health Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

MEASURE 35 IS GOOD FOR OREGON’S SMALL BUSINESSES
A Bad Situation
Skyrocketing costs for medical malpractice insurance isn’t
just hurting doctors, it’s hurting patients and Oregon’s small
businesses.

Rates have increased dramatically since the $500,000 cap on
non-economic damages was removed in 1999.

More and more doctors are being forced to either stop practic-
ing or curtail high risk services because they just can not afford
the insurance costs.
Increasing Health Care Costs Hurt Oregon’s Businesses
Unlimited non-economic awards place tremendous upward
pressure on overall health care costs and rates for small
business.
Health insurance is becoming more costly every day and is plac-
ing a larger burden on the shoulders of every small business in
our state.

It has gotten to the point that some employers are no longer
able to offer health insurance to their employees at all.
Lack of Access Hurts Oregon’s Businesses
Many smaller communities across the state are losing access to
critical health care services. People in need of care are forced to
travel increasing distances to receive it.

This means that employees have to take more time off work for
medical care, which is hard on both employee and employer.
Measure 35 Good for Oregon’s Businesses
A recent U.S. Department of Health and Human Services study
estimates that limiting unreasonable jury awards for non-
economic damages, which is exactly what Measure 35 does,
could reduce health care and insurance costs by 5-9% without
adversely affecting quality of care.
Oregon’s Small Business Urge You to Pass Measure 35
Measure 35 helps to lift the burden of health care costs that are
impacting Oregon’s small businesses. NFIB/Oregon urges you to
support Measure 35 because it is a first step down the road to
positive health care reform.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE 35!

J.L. Wilson
National Federation of Independent Business - Oregon

(This information furnished by J.L. Wilson, National Federation of
Independent Business/Oregon.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
57 | Statewide Measures

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

IT COULD HAPPEN TO YOU
You’re in a serious accident. Your ambulance is diverted to an
ER hours away and valuable time is lost. No trauma specialist is
on call at your hospital, because medical liability insurance is no
longer available.
You’re expecting a baby. But you’ll have to drive over 100 miles
for delivery. Only a handful of doctors are left who practice
obstetrics, the rest driven out by skyrocketing liability costs.

A family member has a serious medical problem. You’ll have to
wait weeks or months to see a specialist, or go out of state.
Many of Oregon’s best physicians can no longer afford to prac-
tice here, because of liability costs.
These scenes are not imaginary. Oregon is losing doctors.
Access to medical care is threatened by frivolous lawsuits and
unreasonable non-economic damage (“pain and suffering”)
awards. You pay for it by losing access to medical care. Ballot
Measure 35 stops the loss.
IF IT HAPPENS TO YOU

If an injury occurs due to medical negligence, you should receive
the economic award to which you are entitled.

This means recovery of all current and future medical, hospital,
nursing, rehabilitative and other health care services, all lost
income, expenses for domestic service, and more.
No limits. Period. That is the way it should be, and that is
exactly what Ballot Measure 35 ensures.
DON’T LET IT HAPPEN TO YOU

This is not a partisan issue; it is a patient issue. We simply can-
not afford to lose more doctors and access to the local medical
care we need. It doesn’t matter where you live: Portland,
Medford, Pendleton or Lakeview. The issue is about all
Oregonians’ access to medical care. A YES vote on Ballot
Measure 35 will assure that YOU get help in time of need.

Medical Society of Metropolitan Portland

(This information furnished by Keith I. Marton, M.D., President, Medical
Society of Metropolitan Portland.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Associated Oregon Industries Supports Ballot Measure 35
AOI represents over 20,000 member companies, which employ
almost one third of Oregon’s private workforce. On behalf of our
members, we implore all Oregonians to vote YES on Measure
35.

MEASURE 35 WILL SAVE OREGON TAXPAYERS MILLIONS!

Recently, Regence BlueCross BlueShield estimated that Ballot
Measure 35 will save the three governmental agencies they
insure over $27 million in tax payer dollars due to overall sav-
ings in health care costs. If $27 million represents the savings for
only three governmental agencies, just imagine the overall tax
savings when every government employee is taken into account!

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

reasonable solution to a problem that impacts all of us. It will
serve to protect doctors and their patients while ensuring that
injured patients are adequately taken care of.
Measure 35 is right for Oregon and that is why the Marion-Polk
County Medical Society asks you to vote YES on Measure 35.
Marion-Polk County Medical Society

(This information furnished by William “Bud” Pierce, Ph.D., M.D.,
President, Marion-Polk County Medical Society.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

LANE COUNTY MEDICAL SOCIETY SAYS

“YES” TO MEASURE 35

Oregon’s Medical Insurance System Needs Treatment
Oregon’s medical malpractice insurance system is in trouble.
That is bad news for everyone who needs health care, which
means it’s bad news for all Oregonians.
Diagnosis of the Problem

• The cap on non-economic damages was removed in 1999,

which led to a 65% increase in the size of jury awards.

• These increased jury awards led to an average increase of

175% in the cost of medical malpractice insurance for
all doctors in Oregon.

• Rates have increased so much that it is becoming difficult

for many doctors to continue their practice, especially
doctors in high risk services like delivering babies and
performing brain surgery.

• As doctors are forced to cut these critical services, like the
125 providers who have stopped delivering babies since
2000, patients lose access to health care because there is
no longer a doctor available to treat them.

• Oregonians are forced to travel ever-increasing

distances for care.

This is a bad situation for both doctor and patient. Fortunately,
we can treat this problem.
Recommended Treatment Plan: PASS MEASURE 35

• Restores a $500,000 cap on only non-economic damages
in medical malpractice cases that has worked before and
will work again. No cap on economic damages.

• Provides full and just compensation to injured patients

while stabilizing a system the rest of us depend on for our
health care.

• The stability created by the newly reinstated caps will lead

to lower insurance premiums for doctors.

• Lower premiums mean that doctors can get back to the

business of helping patients.

• More doctors practicing means more access to care for all

We can help cure this problem by simply passing Measure 35
and bringing back a system that has already proven itself in
Oregon. On behalf of all my members, I urge you to VOTE YES
ON 35!

(This information furnished by Raymond N. Englander, Lane County
Medical Society.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Doctors are being forced to either reduce their

Oregonians.

MEASURE 35 IS GOOD

FOR BUSINESS OWNERS AND EMPLOYEES

The cost of insuring employees is steadily increasing and is
steadily becoming a larger problem for all employers, big and
small. Unfortunately, the burden is proving too much for a large
number of businesses, forcing them to either reduce health
care benefits or eliminate them all together.
Ballot Measure 35 will help to reverse this trend. A recent U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services study estimated
overall health care costs could be reduced by at least 5% by
simply capping non-economic damage awards to reasonable
levels. A 5% saving on health care costs will save Oregon busi-
nesses millions of dollars each year, helping them continue to
keep their employees insured.

MEASURE 35 IS PART OF THE SOLUTION

Measure 35 will restore the cap on non-economic damages that
held medical malpractice insurance costs and outrageous jury
awards in check for over a decade. This measure is not new or
unknown, we have had it before and we know a cap will work
again.

Ballot Measure 35 will not solve every problem in Oregon’s
health care system, but it takes a first step down the path to
greater reform. We urge you to join Associated Oregon
Industries in supporting a common sense solution for
Oregon…VOTE YES ON MEASURE 35!
Richard M. Butrick
President
Associated Oregon Industries

(This information furnished by Richard M. Butrick, President & Chief
Executive Officer, Associated Oregon Industries.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

OREGON IS LOSING DOCTORS

The Marion-Polk County Medical Society represents doctors
across two counties and, on behalf of our members, we are
urging you to support Measure 35.

From 1987 to 1999 Oregon had a system that worked. During
that time, a $500,000 cap on non-economic damages reduced
and stabilized medical malpractice insurance premiums. That
stability kept premiums reasonable and allowed doctors to focus
on their practice. Once that cap was removed, our medical
malpractice insurance system went haywire.

THE RESULTS OF REMOVING THE CAP ON

NON-ECONOMIC DAMAGES

Malpractice insurance rates have increased

an average of 175%.

services or leave the state.

This limits access to adequate health care

for many Oregonians.

Jury awards have increased over 60%.
THE RESULTS OF PASSING MEASURE 35

Doctors will be able to continue practicing.

Access to medical care will improve.

Jury awards will return to reasonable levels.

The jury system will be protected

while discouraging frivolous lawsuits.

Restoration of a system that worked well for over a decade.

Measure 35 would restore the $500,000 cap on non-economic
damages that served this state so well. This measure is a

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
58 | Statewide Measures

Measure 35 Arguments
Argument in Favor

Clackamas County Medical Society Needs You to

Vote Yes on Measure 35

The issue is simple: Our Citizens’ Access to health care is
being compromised. We are confident Measure 35 moves all of
Oregon in the right direction toward addressing this health care
access crisis.
Without Measure 35, the following problems we are now facing
in Clackamas County will only get worse:

• Our physician population is not keeping pace with the

general population.

• Increasing numbers of primary care medical practices are

now closed to new patients.

• Family practice physicians who once delivered babies are

no longer providing these services - because of sky-
rocketing medical insurance premiums.

• Some OB/GYN physicians are cutting obstetrical services
for the same reason – they cannot afford to perform these
high risk services!

• We now have cases of an orthopedist and an OB/GYN

being forced to quit their practices in Clackamas County
due to high insurance rates.

• Many physicians have limited the number, or no longer

accept new Medicare or Oregon Health Plan patients
because low reimbursements fail to cover the cost of
increasing insurance premiums.

• Waiting periods for appointments are increasing.
• Emergency room visits are increasing, which results in

higher insurance costs for everyone.

These critical, life-giving and life-saving services should not
be limited for any individual – especially when returning to a
system that existed in Oregon for more than a decade would
help avert an access crisis. All we are asking is to return to a
system that worked. Please help us restore the $500,000 cap on
non-economic damages.

Ultimately, the health care you protect could be yours or that of
your family.
Please make your vote count and vote YES on Ballot
Measure 35.
CLACKAMAS COUNTY MEDICAL SOCIETY

(This information furnished by Janet M. Hochstatter, Executive Director,
Clackamas County Medical Society.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Chambers of Commerce from throughout Oregon

are joining together to urge a YES vote on Measure 35

As the representatives of thousands of businesses across
Oregon, we urge you to support Measure 35. Some may not
understand why Chambers of Commerce from every corner of
the state are interested in a measure that addresses a problem
with Oregon’s medical malpractice insurance system.

We are interested because this system affects everyone
- Skyrocketing malpractice insurance rates are forcing doctors
to restrict their practices or leave the state; that hurts access to
health care for everyone.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
59 | Statewide Measures

- Skyrocketing malpractice insurance rates place an upward
pressure on overall health care costs; that makes care more
expensive for everyone, employees and employers alike.
- Lack of access hurts our communities, and ultimately hurts
the businesses that we represent.
Measure 35 addresses those problems by restoring a $500,000
cap on non-economic damages in medical malpractice cases, a
cap that worked in Oregon for over a decade. This measure will
not solve all our health care problems, but we know it will solve
one huge problem by keeping our doctors practicing. Measure
35’s solution has worked before in Oregon and will work again
for all Oregonians.

Measure 35 is a common sense solution

that has already worked once.

Please VOTE YES ON 35
Portland Business Alliance

The Chamber of Medford/Jackson County

Jacksonville Chamber of Commerce

Joseph Chamber of Commerce

Oregon City Chamber of Commerce

Seaside Chamber of Commerce

Dallas Area Chamber of Commerce
Bay Area Chamber of Commerce

Milton-Freewater Area Chamber of Commerce

North Clackamas County Chamber of Commerce
Madras-Jefferson County Chamber of Commerce

Salem Area Chamber of Commerce
Tillamook Chamber of Commerce

(This information furnished by Brad Hicks, President & CEO, The Chamber
of Medford/Jackson County.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Medical Malpractice Insurance Crisis for Oregon
The rising costs of medical malpractice insurance and the
increasing difficulty in getting adequate malpractice insurance
for many surgical subspecialists is causing a large number of
surgeons to question their ability to continue providing emer-
gency surgery and trauma care.

• The malpractice premium cost for neurosurgeons that

perform high-risk operations, like brain surgery, is $30,000
more than standard medical practice insurance premium for
neurosurgeons.

• Because of these high costs, some Oregon neurosurgeons

no longer perform those services, forcing patients with
severe brain bleeding to be transported great distances to
trauma centers.

• The delay in care affects survival and disability for patients

with brain injuries.

Most surgeons are willing to provide emergency surgery but
many are hesitating because of the malpractice insurance
crisis.
Physicians and surgeons have had such difficulty getting
malpractice insurance coverage since the cap on non-economic
damages was removed because of the amount of uncertainty
inherently involved in unlimited awards for pain and suffering.
Personal injury lawyers’ pursuit of unlimited non-economic
damages and the corresponding outrageous jury awards they
can produce are a big part of the cause of the medical insurance
crisis.
Should the “lottery” for unlimited medical malpractice non-
economic damages continue? Should we allow a situation where

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

surgeons can’t afford to provide emergency care and patients
can’t receive timely emergency care when they need it? Injured
patients should be fully compensated and with Measure 35 they
will be. Patients will receive full compensation for all economic
hardships and up to $500,000 for non-economic damages.
Vote YES on Measure 35 and restore stability to the Trauma
and Emergency Medical System
William Long, M.D., FACS
Medical Director of Trauma Services
Legacy Emanuel Level 1 Trauma Center

Chris Kaufman, M.D., FACS
Asociate Trauma Director

Seth Izenberg, M.D., FACS
Associate Trauma Director

(This information furnished by William Long, MD, Medical Director of
Trauma Services, Legacy Emanuel Level 1 Trauma Center.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon’s doctors and patients

are in the same, dangerous, boat.

Medical malpractice insurance rates are going through the roof
due to the removal of the cap on non-economic damages.
Doctors are being forced out of practice by these enormous
premiums. The situation is not good for patients, in fact it’s com-
promising their access to health care. As physicians who provide
anesthetic care for such critical care as labor and delivery and to
gravely ill and injured patients, we see the effects of this crisis
every day as the number of neurosurgeons and other trauma
specialist dwindles.

Oregon needs a cap on non-economic damages. To prove

that, you need only look to what has happened in the

last five years since the cap was removed:

1) Awards have increased from an average of $870,000 to
$3.6 million, that is 65%!

2) The average obstetric claims have risen to an amazing
$9.5 million.
3) The number of patients complaints have not grown, it’s the
awards that have grown.
4) The average doctor’s medical insurance costs have risen
over 170%.
5) 22% of all those practitioners delivering babies in Oregon
have stopped.

6) Oregon is losing anesthesiologists and, without stable insur-
ance rates, it is becoming very difficult to recruit new physicians.

Those are some very frightening statistics. And without

Measure 35, things are only going to get worse.

BALLOT MEASURE 35 will lower malpractice insurance rates
which will help keep Oregon’s doctors practicing in Oregon.

BALLOT MEASURE 35 will restore balance to the system by
ensuring that injured patients receive fair compensation for all
economic hardship while protecting patient access to care.
BALLOT MEASURE 35 will make sure that the next time you
need the services of an anesthesiologists, on will be there to
help you.

Ballot Measure 35 is too important for Oregon’s future and we
can not afford to let it fail. Please VOTE YES ON MEASURE 35!

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
60 | Statewide Measures

Angela Kendrick, M.D.

President

Oregon Society of Anesthesiologists

(This information furnished by Angela Kendrick, M.D., President, Oregon
Society of Anesthesiologists.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Measure 35

Solution to Controlling Health Care Costs
Measure 35 is a solution to a serious problem facing
Oregon’s health care system: increasing costs of medical mal-
practice insurance is causing small business insurance costs to
increase. In 1999, a court action lifted the cap on non-economic
damages in medical malpractice cases, creating a crisis in liabil-
ity insurance coverage for Oregon physicians and hospitals, and
Oregon’s employees’ are paying the bigger share of these
increases.
Lawsuits and resulting costs to doctors and patients are
spiraling out of control due to the unpredictability in the insur-
ance market. This unpredictability is a direct result of the lifted
cap on non-economic damages in medical malpractice cases.
Since the cap was lifted in 1999, medical liability premiums
have skyrocketed—as much as 400 percent for some high-risk
specialists. Jury awards have increased by 65 percent in just
three years, with the average claim rising from $870,000 to $3.6
million and the average demand for an obstetric claim rising to a
staggering $9.5 million.
Small- and medium-sized businesses are being hit heavily
with the effects of lifting the cap on non-economic damages.
As the costs to small business increase, these higher costs are
passed on through higher insurance rates, co-pays and
deductibles. As the cost of providing health care insurance to
employees continues to go through the roof, businesses’
benefits plans are forced to be less comprehensive and less
competitive. This affects everyone’s pocketbooks as businesses
are forced to pay more.
Other states have seen the results of reform, with premium
increases remaining significantly lower due to a cap on non-
economic damage awards (including Oregon when the cap was
previously in place). Through Measure 35’s $500,000 limit for
non-economic damages, costs will decrease and availability will
increase, once again stabilizing Oregon’s healthcare system.
Stability in the medical liability system is desperately needed,
and with the passing of Ballot Measure 35, Oregon’s critical
healthcare condition will be remedied.
Vote YES on 35.

(This information furnished by Bill Perry, Oregon Restaurant Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregonians are being needlessly put at risk by a

medical tort system in need of reform.

It Costs Doctors

Medical malpractice insurance costs are increasing so rapidly
that many physicians are forced to leave their practices and
move to other states, leaving thousands of Oregonians with little
or no access to adequate health care. The situation has become

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

a crisis: one that will not solve itself.

It Costs You

Doctors are forced to practice “defensive medicine” in order to
protect themselves from medical malpractice claims. These
extensive and sometimes invasive tests sometimes not med-
ically necessary, and also passed on to you in the form of higher
insurance premiums and co-pays.

And It Gets Worse

Doctors are leaving Oregon at an alarming rate. What will
become of the health of you and your loved ones when some-
thing as simple as a routine physical becomes a burden to
schedule? Let alone a catastrophic health emergency requiring
the skills of a specialist: a specialist who can no longer provide
critical medical procedures or who no longer practices in Oregon
because of skyrocketing rates.

SAVE OREGON’S DOCTORS!

• Measure 35 will restore balance to the system by capping

non-economic damages.

• Measure 35 will stabilize malpractice premiums: keeping

malpractice insurance affordable in Oregon.

• Measure 35 will protect the health of Oregonians by

ensuring their access to critical specialty services

VOTE YES ON 35!

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
Oregon Academy of Family Physicians
Oregon Academy of Ophthalmology
O regon Academy of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surg e r y, Inc.
Oregon Association of Orthopaedists
The Oregon Chapter of the American College of Surgeons
Oregon Chapter, American College of Cardiology
Oregon Chapter, American College of Physicians
Oregon Council of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry
Oregon Dermatology Society
Oregon Psychiatric Association
Oregon Radiological Society
Oregon Society of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology
Oregon Society of Anesthesiologists, Inc.
Oregon Society of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Oregon Urological Society
Southwestern Oregon Medical Society

(This information furnished by John Moorhead, M.D., President, Oregon
Medical Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

It is Time to Look Beyond the Smoke and Mirrors

There are a handful of personal injury lawyers spreading
misinformation about Ballot Measure 35. We are a statewide
organization representing over 300 practicing emergency physi-
cians in Oregon and we feel it is important to let the facts speak
for themselves.

• Doctors are leaving Oregon because of the high cost of

malpractice insurance.

THE CRISIS:

• Many doctors have stopped performing high-risk

procedures because of these high rates.

THE MISINFORMATION:

Opponents to Measure 35 claim that it would take away your
right to a jury trial, they claim it will not reduce medical insur-
ance rates and they say it will not lower health care costs.
However, none of their claims hold up when you review the
facts.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
61 | Statewide Measures

THE FACTS:

• Measure 35 protects your right to a jury and will allow
unlimited economic and punitive damages. Measure 35
caps non-economic damages at $500,000. This is only one
of three types of awards juries can determine!

• Measure 35 will reduce medical insurance rates by

restoring predictability and stability to the insurance
market. You only need to look to Oregon’s recent past for
all the evidence you need that caps work.

• Measure 35 will lower your health care costs by at least
5%: according to a recent study by U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services.

DON’T BUY THE LIES

If Measure 35 fails there will be two losers: Oregonians and
their health care providers. Oregonians will lose access to care
and physicians will lose the ability to practice in Oregon. The
only winners will be profiteering trial lawyers.

As emergency physicians we are on the front lines of medicine
every day and we understand the importance of preserving
patient access…and Measure 35 will ensure that we all have
access to medical care when and where we need it.

VOTE YES ON 35

Oregon Chapter of the American College of

Emergency Physicians

(This information furnished by Janet D. Paquette, MD, FACEP, President,
Oregon Chapter of the American College of Emergency Physicians.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Medical Injuries Should Be Compensated 

The facts are that sometimes people get hurt when doctors
make mistakes. When that happens, people SHOULD be paid
for their losses. Measure 35 guarantees that they will, but some
attorneys don’t want you to know that.

Don’t Let the Personal Injury Lawyer’s

Misinformation Fool You!

The approximately 30 personal injury lawyers that are supporting
the opposition claim Measure 35 would limit all awards in med-
ical insurance cases to $500,000, even though they know that is
just not true.

Jury’s Still Decide Damages

Measure 35 ensures that you can receive full and fair compen-
sation for any medical injury. Measure 35 guarantees that juries
can make the decision to compensate you for ALL economic
damages, such as lost wages, medical expenses, childcare
costs and future costs that are a result of an injury. Measure 35
will only place a $500,000 limit on extra, non-economic dam-
ages, things like emotional pain and suffering.

Why Do Personal Injury Lawyers Oppose Measure 35?

It’s a matter of greed. Measure 35 limits the amount of potential
income attorney’s can make in a lawsuit. Measure 35 can cut
their income by 40%. That’s their main motivation for opposing
Measure 35.

Physicians Want To Protect Your Access To Health Care

Who do you think has your best interest at heart, the 30 per-
sonal injury lawyers who are trying to protect their pocketbooks,
OR YOUR PHYSICIAN? Measure 35 will restore sanity to a sys-
tem that has run amok and is hurting the people of Oregon. It

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

will help guarantee that physicians will keep delivering babies in
rural areas, performing the complicated surgeries and keeping
their doors open to all patients.
VOTE YES ON MEASURE 35 to bring back a system that
worked.
Osteopathic Physicians and Surgeons of Oregon

(This information furnished by Jeff Heatherington, Osteopathic Physicians
and Surgeons of Oregon, Inc.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Dear Voter:

I am an attorney and a member of the Oregon State Bar. I am
currently retired after several years in private mediation practice.
Prior to becoming a lawyer I was engaged in several other
professions. I believe I bring a somewhat unique breadth of
knowledge and experience to certain legal issues.

In my view the present system of litigation of personal injury
claims is seriously flawed. It tends to promote lawsuits that are
little more than lotteries for plaintiffs and their attorneys, who
often receive one-third or more of jury awards.

Few would dispute the premise that if an injury is truly the

result of negligence, the injured party should be reimbursed for
the economic loss he or she sustains. In contrast, I believe the
area of so-called “non-economic” damages is one in which the
legal system encourages abuse. Such injuries actually exist, but
it is typically impossible to place a definitive value on them,
while the dollar value of economic damages must be substanti-
ated objectively. This too often encourages outrageous requests
of millions of dollars to be added to otherwise legitimate claims;
and also encourages the filing of lawsuits whose merits are at
best marginal.

The public should be aware that although the costs of dispro-

portionate jury awards fall first upon defendants and their
insurers, eventually everyone pays. This Measure is a first step in
correcting this important problem.

Please join me in supporting Measure 35.

Robert B. Johnson, J.D., Ph.D.

(This information furnished by Robert Johnson, J.D., Ph.D.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

PATIENT ACCESS IS BEING RESTRICTED

Getting a doctor’s appointment when you want one is becoming
difficult in this state.

Patients are waiting months to see a physician and injured
patients are often forced to travel great distances to find a cer-
tain specialist.
Pregnant women are having a difficult time finding obstetricians,
especially in rural areas of Oregon.
Skyrocketing medical insurance rates, caused by flaws in
Oregon’s medical liability system, are creating the delays in
appointments and care.

Doctors cannot even get insurance to cover the huge amounts
being awarded.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
62 | Statewide Measures

DOCTORS ARE FORCED TO STOP PROVIDING SERVICES

Many doctors have quit their profession or left the state because
of the cost of malpractice insurance in Oregon.
Many have stopped performing high-risk procedures, like back
surgery and delivering babies, because of our medical liability
insurance crisis.

Skills once used to heal patients, skills that doctors spent tens
of thousands of hours in training to acquire, have been aban-
doned by physicians because of the risk of multi-million dollar
lawsuits.

The end result is that access to sophisticated health care serv-
ices has become more difficult for Oregonians because of this
medical liability insurance crisis.

Your health may be at risk because of
decreased access to care in our state.

Unfortunately, you may not realize this until it is too late.

MEASURE 35 WILL HELP CORRECT THIS CRISIS

Measure 35 will once again make Oregon attractive for new
doctors.
Measure 35 will allow doctors to continue providing high quality
care to Oregonians.
Measure 35 does not cap potential lost wages or medical
expenses in a malpractice case.

Please vote YES on Measure 35 to protect health care

access for all Oregonians.

McMinnville Physicians Organization

Erik E. Swensson, M.D., F.A.C.S., Vascular & General Surgery

Michael P. Jaczko, D.O., Family Practice
Matthew J. Bliven, M.D., Family Practice

John B. Neeld, M.D., Obstetrics & Gynecology

(This information furnished by Kathie Oriet, McMinnville Physicians
Organization.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Local Medical School Student May Be Forced to Leave
Oregon

I am currently a medical student in my third year at OHSU. After
graduation, I hope to set up practice medicine in Oregon.
Unfortunately, I don’t know if that will be possible. The reality is
that I may likely be forced to move out of Oregon and practice in
another state where I can afford my medical liability insurance.
Unfortunately, it is not just about patient care anymore

Today in Oregon, we have a system that has gotten so far out of
hand that, along with learning leading edge procedures and
practices, I learn about defensive medicine in an effort to protect
against frivolous lawsuits. I understand the potentially devastat-
ing impact of even one lawsuit. A lawsuit that has the ability to
shatter my dreams of serving my patients, force me to close a
practice, and compel me to look at other avenues of medicine.
These are costs that will ultimately impact patients through
higher insurance premiums, lack of access, and lack of choices
in medical care.
Measure 35 Will Allow Student to Study and Practice in
Oregon

Measure 35 will restore a cap that worked in Oregon to stabilize
the system, allow doctors to practice and protect patients’
rights. Measure 35 is a strong first step in the right direction for

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

Oregon. This is a problem that must be addressed because if
Oregon’s own medical students won’t stay in Oregon – who will
serve your community?
I, like my fellow students, have not yet been threatened by the
soaring costs of practicing, frivolous lawsuits, or closing prac-
tices. We see a bright future of serving patients who need our
skills and services. That is why I support Measure 35.
Now is the time for a change…VOTE YES ON 35.

Cody Evans
OHSU Medical Student

(This information furnished by Cody Evans, OHSU Medical Student.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

OREGON IS LOSING NEUROSURGEONS

Neurosurgery (surgery of the brain and spine) is a critical part of
any health care system. Unfortunately, neurosurgeons have
recently become an endangered species in Oregon because of
skyrocketing medical insurance premiums that are driving them
out the state or out of practice. That means the next time there
is a serious brain or spine injury, brain tumor, or brain hemor-
rhage (stroke), there may not be a neurosurgeon available.

Some of the key factors driving medical insurance premiums
through the roof:

• Excessive jury awards for non-economic damages.
• Many frivolous lawsuits.

WHAT’S CHANGED

Between 1987 and 1999, malpractice insurance rates dropped
by 50%, which ensured that doctors were able to practice their
craft and care for patients. From 1999 onward, insurance rates
for neurosurgeons have increased approximately 400%, which
has forced many neurosurgeons to stop providing this high risk
care. Some insurance carriers are unwilling to cover neuro-
surgeons in this high risk environment. Without malpractice
insurance, neurosurgeons are not able to provide care. What
caused this huge change? The $500,000 cap on non-economic
damages was removed in 1999. Now, awards for non-economic
damages (pain and suffering) can reach millions of dollars.

WHY WE NEED MEASURE 35

Measure 35 would reinstate the $500,000 cap that has worked
in Oregon in prior years. We need Measure 35 because we need
practicing neurosurgeons in Oregon. We need Measure 35
because we need to restore a fair system that protects doctors
and patients in Oregon.

Measure 35 will not solve every problem in our medical system.
However, Measure 35 will ensure that our neurosurgeons may
continue to practice in Oregon and that Oregonians will have
access to neurosurgical care. That is why the Oregon
Neurosurgical Association encourages a YES vote on
MEASURE 35.

Dr. Jeff Chen
Dr. Frank Soldevilla

Dr. David Adler

(This information furnished by Dr. Jeff Chen, Oregon Neurosurgical
Society.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
63 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Favor

IS THERE A DOCTOR IN THE HOUSE!?

There soon won’t be enough doctors for all the houses in
Oregon if frivolous lawsuits continue to drive up the cost of mal-
practice insurance. We are groups of independent physicians
throughout the state and we know how hard physicians work to
provide quality care to Oregonians. We also know how hard sky-
rocketing insurance rates in Oregon have impacted both patients
and doctors:

• Oregonian’s access to critical health care services is

being severely compromised. Doctors are being forced to
quit certain services or leave the state at an alarming rate.
• Everyone pays! High premiums are passed on to YOU in

the form of higher health care costs.

Opponents of measure 35 try to pull the wool over your eyes,
telling you that a cap on non-economic damages will hijack the
jury’s control over awards. This is patently untrue.

• Non-economic damages are only one piece of the puz-
zle. There are two other types of damages: economic and
punitive. Neither will still be affected and juries will be able
to provide just compensation.

• Unlimited non-economic damages give personal injury

lawyers every incentive to drive up awards. Personal
injury lawyers’ extreme monetary demands make it more
likely insurance companies will settle to avoid costly litiga-
tion and unlimited jury awards for non-economic damages.
So why not work fewer hours and still get paid handsomely.

Keep health care accessible and affordable for all Oregonians.
Stand together with physicians from across the state and vote
YES ON 35!
Names of IPAs to be listed here

PrimeCare
McMinnville Physicians Organizations
Columbia Pacific I.P.A.
Central Oregon IPA
Mid Rogue Independent Physicians Association
InterHospital Physicians Association – The Portland IPA
Association of Northwest Physicians
Lane Individual Practice Association
Oregon Primary Care, Inc.
Pacific IPA, Inc.
Quality Care Associates, Inc.

(This information furnished by Mike Bond, CEO, PrimeCare.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

The Oregon Association of Orthopedists urges a

YES vote on Measure 35.

Our Association numbers close to 200 orthopedic surgeons
across the state. We take pride in providing quality care for
patients with injuries to bones, joints, tendons, and nerves.

Oregon’s Medical Liability Crisis

Oregon’s medical liability crisis is responsible for a growing
threat to Oregonian’s access to quality healthcare. The cost of
medical liability insurance has become so expensive that many
orthopedic surgeons have been forced to limit their practice,
relocate to a different state, or withdraw from government pro-
grams such as the Oregon Health Plan and Medicare where
reimbursement rates fail to adequately cover the rising insurance

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

premiums.

Medical Liability Insurance is Necessary

Medical liability insurance is necessary for those injured by
medical errors to receive payment for their economic and non-
economic losses. Examples of economic losses include medical
bills, lost wages, disability and job retraining benefits. Non-
economic losses, such as pain and suffering, are real but not
measurable.

Oregon’s Medical Insurance System is Broken

Throughout the 1990’s medical liability insurance remained
affordable because of a cap on non-economic awards in med-
ical liability lawsuits. Since removed in 1999 there has been no
fiscally responsible or consistent formula for calculating non-
economic awards. This has resulted in exorbitant awards for
non-economic losses and skyrocketing medical liability insur-
ance premiums. Clearly our current “system” is broken and
represents an unsustainable burden to all Oregonian’s.
Measure 35 is a Common Sense Solution

Measure 35 will restore a cap on non-economic awards in med-
ical liability lawsuits of $500,000 with provisions to increase with
the cost of living. Measure 35 will still allow anyone who has suf-
fered injury due to medical error to sue for full compensation of
economic damages. Measure 35 is a common sense and proven
solution that will help protect access to quality healthcare for all
Oregonian’s.
Oregon’s orthopedic surgeons urge you to VOTE YES ON 35.

Mark D. Peterson, M.D.
2004 President
Oregon Association of Orthopaedists

(This information furnished by Mark D. Peterson, M.D., 2004 President,
Oregon Association of Orthopaedists.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Economic damages are protected.

Make no mistake, we believe that those patients harmed as a
result of medical negligence should be made as whole again as
possible. This means that you should receive your full eco-
nomic damages including lost earnings, future earnings, past
and future medical care and any supportive care necessary. This
measure only proposes to cap non-economic damage, such
as pain and suffering, to $500,000.

Juries will be protected.

This ballot measure is not about juries or disempowering juries.
It is about a system full of frivolous suits filed in hope of hitting
the jackpot. These jackpot awards cost all of us, and the major-
ity of the money does not go where it should-----to the patient.
Some reasonable limits need to be placed on pain and suffering
awards or we all will pay and only very few will benefit.

This is not an insurance industry investment problem.
The opposition will attempt to confuse you with meaningless
numbers. The reality is that the insurance industry has had to
increase rates to recoup substantial losses they have incurred
due to jackpot pain and suffering awards since the Oregon cap
on non-economic damages was lifted in 1999. Insurers are trying
to make up for losses incurred due to jackpot medical liability
awards, not due to their investments.

The current system is full of frivolous cases, costs all of us
significantly, and results in the majority of the money awarded
going to the trial attorney. It is a broken system that is already
unfair.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
64 | Statewide Measures

This is not a “bad doctor” problem.

It is not the same small number of doctors year in and year out
who are causing the bulk of awards in medical liability suits. In
fact, the number of cases filed has remained steady, it is just the
awards that have gone through the roof.

Please vote yes on Measure 35.

Michael B. Vessely, M.D.
American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons

(This information furnished by Michael B. Vessely, M.D., American
Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

OREGON NURSE-MIDWIVES SUPPORT MEASURE 35
Nurse-Midwives support consumer protection

Certified Nurse-Midwives (CNMs) believe women and their
families should be justly compensated for harm as a result of
practitioner error. Measure 35 guarantees a citizen’s right to a
jury trial for injury resulting from medical negligence, and to
compensation for medical costs, lost income, future impairment
of earning capacity and other economic damages. Measure 35
further supports compensation for pain, suffering, inconvenience
and other subjective non-economic losses up to $500,000.
Nurse-Midwives serve the women of Oregon

Nurse-Midwives have been practicing in Oregon for over 30

years and attend almost 15% of all births in Oregon. They prac-
tice in a variety of settings: public health departments, migrant
health clinics, private practices and HMOs. They provide health
care to women of all ages, with a focus upon pregnancy and
birth. Over 70% of nurse-midwives include vulnerable popula-
tions of women in their care.
Nurse-Midwifery practice is threatened by high liability
premiums

Like physicians, CNMs are facing ever increasing insurance

rates for liability insurance. In some areas this has resulted in the
actual closure of practices. In all practices, these higher rates
have a direct impact upon the quality of care provided. The sky-
rocketing rates require CNMs to see more patients to cover the
increased cost of premiums, decreasing the time that can be
spent with an individual patient. Time to listen, educate and
counsel patients is a hallmark of nurse-midwifery care.
CNMs are committed to ensuring access to high quality and
affordable health care for all women.

CNMs are a part of the solution to the high cost of health
care. For example, their low-tech, high-touch approach has
been shown to result in fewer Cesarean births. Access to nurse-
midwifery services is threatened by the current liability crisis. We
urge a Yes vote on Measure 35.

(This information furnished by Catherine F. Pelosi, CNM, Oregon Chapter
of the American College of Nurse-Midwives.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

SOUTHERN OREGON DESERVES DOCTORS TOO

Doctors and health care providers in Jackson County treat within
a ten county region in southern and central Oregon. Our doctors
provide critical care and high-risk services, such as delivering
babies and neurosurgery, but many doctors are finding it

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

impossible to continue services because of rapidly raising
medical insurance rates. These doctors may not be here the
next time they are needed unless a reasonable solution to the
problem can be reached.

Measure 35 is a Common Sense Solution to a

Growing Problem. Measure 35 will:

• Keeps doctors practicing, ensuring patient access.
• Protect the jury system and protect injured patients.

• Discourage the filing of lawsuits that lack merit.
• Restore a system that worked for over a decade.
• Allow for unlimited award for economic damages.
• Cap non-economic damages in medical malpractice cases

at $500,000.

Measure 35 is a reasonable solution to an escalating problem.
We urge you to say YES to Oregon’s doctors and say YES to
Measure 35.

Here at the Oregon Optometric Physicians Association we know

the value of clear vision. We can clearly see that the medical
tort system in Oregon is being abused by trial lawyers blind
to the impact their greed has had on the quality of health

care in Oregon. We have watched as our friends and

colleagues have been forced to stop high risk
procedures because the cost of malpractice 

insurance is so high. Don’t take your

physicians for granted because,

like your eyesight, they are

too dear to lose!

THE OREGON OPTOMETRIC PHYSICIANS ASSOCIATION

(This information furnished by Wayne Schumacher, Executive Director,
Oregon Optometric Physicians Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Jackson County Medical Society

Argument in Favor

(This information furnished by Debra McFadden, Jackson County Medical
Society.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon Optometric Physicians Association

Supports Measure 35

There are some things we take for granted: eyesight is one of

them. Another is having access to a physician. Like our

eyesight, we probably won’t miss our doctors

until they are gone.

Don’t let the current crisis become a disaster.

CAN YOU SEE THE PROBLEM?

• Between 1999 and 2003 medical liability premiums have

increased 75%!

• Since the cap on non-economic damages was removed

jury awards have risen 65% while cases settled out of
court have increased exponentially.

• Doctors are being forced out of practice: reducing
patient access to care and proving that the current
system is in need of reform.

IS IT CLEARER NOW?

The problem is coming into focus…

Unfortunately, medical malpractice laws favor lawyers over

both patient and physician. We can correct this by

capping non-economic damages at $500,000.

• Installing a cap on non-economic damages will allow

for just compensation while protecting the medical
community from frivolous and capricious lawsuits.

• A cap will remove the incentive for lawyers to drive up

the plaintiff’s claims in order to pad their own paycheck.

• Caps once worked in Oregon and will work in Oregon

again.
Oregonians deserve the best possible eye care from the

best-trained professionals. Help keep these

professionals in practice and in state, 

VOTE YES ON 35!

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
65 | Statewide Measures

Measure 35 is a Step in the right direction

OREGON’S MEDICAL INSURANCE SYSTEM IS IN TROUBLE
Doctor’s medical malpractice insurance rates are skyrocketing
and forcing many doctors to leave the state, stop actively prac-
ticing medicine or stop providing certain high risk services. As
more and more doctors are forced out, Oregon’s communities
face a growing health care access crisis.
OUR COMMUNITIES NEED HEALTH CARE ACCESS
Communities across Oregon are losing doctors, and that is not
good for anybody. Patients are forced to travel long distances
from their homes for specialized care, and in cases of emer-
gency that travel time can sometimes make the difference
between life and death. This places a strain on families, busi-
nesses, the economy and ultimately the entire community.
Measure 35 will make a difference by:

• Allowing doctors to continue practicing in their

• Ensuring that all Oregonians have access to quality,

communities

local health care

• Limiting non-economic damages to $500,000
• Discouraging frivolous lawsuits
• Protecting every Oregonian’s right to a jury trial
• Allowing juries complete discretion in awarding

economic damages

• Saving taxpayers millions of dollars each year
• Reinstating a cap that worked in Oregon before and

will work again

Measure 35 is not a silver bullet that will solve every problem
that Oregon’s health care system faces, but it is an important
first step. Measure 35 is the best choice for Oregon’s patients,
communities, and health care system.
As the Mayors of numerous communities around the state, we
urge you to do what is best for Oregon…We urge you to vote
YES ON MEASURE 35!

Edward J. Gormley
Mayor of McMinnville

Keith Tymchuk
Mayor of Reedsport

Robb E. Van Cleave
Mayor of The Dalles

Jim Torrey
Mayor of Eugene

Lou Ogden
Mayor of Tualatin

(This information furnished by Edward J. Gormley, Mayor of McMinnville.)

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

skyrocketing insurance rates health care providers must pay.
Without reform, these costs will just continue to increase and
continue to impair the ability of Oregon’s community hospitals to
provide the best care for the lowest costs possible.

Argument in Favor

Oregon’s Local Community Hospitals Ask You to

Vote YES on Measure 35.

We are the Chief Petitioners for Measure 35.

We are Oregonians, doctors, and surgeons. We have cared for
our fellow citizens for years and hope to do so in the future. We
want you to know that our health care system is in jeopardy.

We are leaders in promoting patient safety and

providing excellent medical care.

We are all members of the Oregon Medical Association. We have
helped to create the organization’s Patient Safety Committee,
taking the lead in the development of Oregon’s model patient
safety legislation.

We are fighting to protect your access to health care.
Sick or injured people need access to quality, timely medical
care. But rising liability insurance premiums are driving doctors
out of Oregon.

Measure 35 will bring down those premiums, and maintain
access to medical care while fairly reimbursing those who are
truly injured.

- Measure 35 protects the patient by promoting unlimited

- Measure 35 restores a cap of $500,000 only on non-

economic damages

economic damages

- Measure 35 maintains the jury system

Personal injury attorneys will distort the

goals of Measure 35.

They have to if they want to continue to get rich off of pain and
suffering awards. You pay for this by losing access to your doc-
tor. So just remember this - Measure 35 returns Oregon to the
stable medical liability climate that we experienced from 1987 -
1999. Nothing more and nothing less. Keep your doctor. Keep
access to health care. And keep working with us to make medi-
cine safer.

Vote YES on Measure 35

Colin Cave, M.D.
ENT - Head and Neck Surgeon, Beaverton

Monica Wehby, M.D.
Pediatric Neurosurgeon, Portland

Peter A. Bernardo, M.D.
General Surgeon, Salem

(This information furnished by Colin Cave, M.D., ENT-Head and Neck
Surgeon, Beaverton.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

YOUR LOCAL COMMUNITY HOSPITAL

SUPPORTS MEASURE 35

Oregon’s community hospitals understand the importance of
returning our state to a system that worked before. Measure 35
does just that by restoring a $500,000 cap on non-economic
damages in medical insurance cases.
Oregon’s hospitals are facing escalating malpractice rates that
cut into the revenues that, otherwise, would have been available
for health care services Hospitals are also having a difficult time
keeping their physicians and recruiting new ones, due to the

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
66 | Statewide Measures

Columbia Memorial Hospital
Holy Rosary Medical Center

Legacy Health System

Merle West Medical Center

Peace Harbor Hospital

Providence Hood River Memorial Hospital

Providence Medford Medical Center

Providence Milwaukie Hospital

Providence Portland Medical Center
Providence St. Vincent Medical Center

Providence Newberg Hospital

Providence Health System

Salem Hospital Regional Health Services

Silverton Hospital

St. Elizabeth Health Services

Tuality Healthcare

Mercy Medical Center

Peace Health, Oregon Region

Adventist Medical Center

Good Shepherd Health Care System

Asante Health System

Kaiser Sunnyside Medical Center

Ashland Community Hospital

McKenzie-Willamette Medical Center

Willamette Falls Hospital
Santiam Memorial Hospital

Willamette Valley Medical Center

Grande Ronde Hospital

Mid-Columbia Medical Center
Cascade Healthcare Community

(This information furnished by Ken Rutledge, President, Oregon
Association of Hospitals and Health Systems.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

13,000 medical errors annually, some causing a lifetime of pain
and medical problems. Of these, between 700 and 1,800 will
likely result in death. It’s hardly “frivolous” or “a jackpot lottery”
when these victims or their families seek compensation for such
tragedies. They’re simply asking that healthcare professionals be
treated the same as all of us and every other Oregon business –
that they accept full responsibility for the consequences of
their mistakes.

The next life at risk may be your own. Please do what’s right:

VOTE NO!

Americans Mad and Angry!

an Oregon non profit organization focusing on

patient safety, disclosure and accountability in healthcare

“The Other AMA”

americansmadandangry.org

(This information furnished by Tom & Deandra Vallier, Americans Mad and
Angry!)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Dear Oregon Voter,

My name is Pete Sorenson, an elected Lane County
Commissioner. I grew up in Coos County, graduated from the
University of Oregon, ran a private law firm, and served as an
elected Oregon State Senator and member of the Senate
Judiciary Committee. I’ve been a licensed Oregon attorney for
22 years. I have represented both injured workers and profes-
sionals such as veterinarians and doctors. It is as a former
practicing attorney that I am speaking to you on this issue
and why I oppose Constitutional Amendment 35. This meas-
ure aims to prevent victims of malpractice from seeking fair
awards.
This measure aims to reduce the amount of compensation that
an Oregon jury can award for injuries and pain suffered as the
result of doctor negligence. It doesn’t prevent “frivolous law-
suits.” This measure doesn’t lower the cost of health care.
Passing this measure will not lower insurance premiums. In fact
studies show that states without caps on jury awards have lower
premiums. To lower insurance premiums requires reform of the
insurance industry, an industry where in the first nine months of
2003 profits increased by 437% for health and life insurance
companies.
In 2000, Oregonians voted three to one against a Constitutional
Amendment to limit a jury’s ability to decide damages. This
measure is just another attempt to go against the will of the
people of Oregon.
The solution is not to deny people their day in court and a fair
award made by a jury of their peers, but to lower insurance
premiums. Please join me in voting NO on Constitutional
Amendment 35.
Pete Sorenson

P.S. - If you have any questions about the seriousness of this
Constitutional amendment and why I oppose it, please contact
me at Pete Sorenson PO Box 10836, Eugene, Oregon 97440 or
by calling me at (541) 485-6726 or by sending me email at
sorenson2004@juno.com.

(This information furnished by Peter Sorenson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 35

Argument in Opposition

AARP, with 456,000 Oregon members over the age of 50,
recommends a “NO” vote on Measure 35.

AARP opposes this measure because:

• It creates unreasonable limits on damage awards for pain

and suffering;

• It would reduce the ability of courts and juries to determine

damage awards free from all forms of age bias, including
devaluation of the quality of an older person’s life;

• The courts already have the authority to decide whether a

lawsuit is frivolous;

• The limit on noneconomic damages is overly broad and

applies not only doctors but to all licensed healthcare
providers and facilities including nursing homes.

Rather than arbitrary limits on damage awards, AARP supports
reform that would promote access to the courts for all legitimate
claims and accelerate the resolution of cases; alternative dispute
resolution for medical malpractice cases that could better serve
injured patients; and insurance reform that provides for malprac-
tice insurance rates that fairly and accurately reflect claims
experience. AARP also supports efforts to eliminate all
preventable medical injuries and accidents due to procedural
errors or inadequacy.
Proponents of Measure 35 have suggested that it will limit
frivolous lawsuits, reduce insurance premiums, and attract
physicians to rural areas. There is nothing in the language of
this measure that guarantees those results.
For these reasons, AARP opposes Measure 35 and urges
Oregonians to vote “NO”.

(This information furnished by Gerald Cohen, State Director, AARP
Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

A DECEPTIVE DIAGNOSIS

Our state Constitution guarantees Oregonians the fundamental
right to a civil trial by a jury of neutral, unbiased Oregon citizens.
On a case by case basis, juries weigh all the evidence and
decide the appropriate amount of damages, if any.
Measure 35’s “one size fits all” revision to our Constitution is
unfair, misguided and will drastically limit the rights of every
citizen. Make no mistake: studios have shown that seniors,
women, children and those who have suffered the most severe
injuries will be hurt the most by caps on non-economic
damages.
Why doesn’t 35’s explanatory statement mention that it will
“reduce medical liability insurance rates” and “improve patient
access to medical care?” Because it won’t! Other states have
shown that just limiting injured patients’ rights has had little
effect on either of these issues.

O re g o n ’s largest medmal insurer is Northwest Physicians Mutual,
which happens to be owned by its physician policyholders. Just
this June they stated, “Our forecast is that our rates are at a
correct level, and that in 2004 we should return to profitability.”
In fact, OB/GYN rates here are lower than California, which has
had caps on damages for decades! Crisis?

In truth, the real healthcare crisis is a hidden epidemic of
preventable medical mistakes. Oregonians suffer from 10,000 to

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
67 | Statewide Measures

Measure 35 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

Protect Patients — Not Insurance Company Profits

Vote NO on Constitutional Amendment 35

Public Citizen is a 160,000-member non-partisan organization
with 35 years experience fighting for patients’ rights and quality
medical care, and against health care and insurance company
profiteering.

Insurance companies and HMOs will always work to boost their
bottom line and to maximize insurance profits. But that doesn’t
mean patients should have to pay the price by limiting their right
to hold doctors, HMOs and hospitals accountable for careless-
ness or negligence.

Wrong Approach for Oregon Consumers

The “remedy” proposed by the insurance industry is to put a
$500,000 limit on so-called non-economic damages, no matter
how severe the case. That’s bad medicine. Such a limit would
only restrict patients whose quality of life has been dramati-
cally affected – those suffering from severe brain damage,
paralysis, blindness or loss of a limb. These are the patients who
need the most protection – not the least!
The sponsors of Constitutional Amendment 35 claim it’s needed
to prevent doctors from leaving Oregon or retiring. But state
records show that the number of active Oregon doctors rose 12
percent from 2000 to 2004, the same rate of increase as from
1995 to 1999, before insurance companies claim the “crisis”
began. Doctors in rural Oregon also increased 12 percent from
2000 to 2004. And key medical specialists, such as those
practicing OB/GYN, emergency medicine and general surgery,
increased at a faster rate from 2000 to 2004 than from 1995 to
1999, state records show.
The real “crisis” in Oregon is the considerable amount of med-
ical malpractice that is committed by a small number of doctors,
many of whom go undisciplined. It would be a huge mistake to
restrict patients’ jury rights and make it more difficult to hold
doctors, hospitals and insurance companies fully accountable
for serious injuries.

Public Citizen Urges a NO vote on Amendment 35

Sincerely,
Joan Claybrook
President, Public Citizen

Frank Clemente
Director, Public Citizen

(This information furnished by Joan Claybrook, President, Public Citizen;
Frank Clemente, Director, Public Citizen’s Congress Watch.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

GOVERNOR KULONGOSKI SAYS

“VOTE NO” ON MEASURE 35.

WE DON’T NEED TO AMEND THE OREGON CONSTITUTION.

I urge Oregonians to “Vote No” on Measure 35.
You’ll hear from the proponents of Measure 35 that high medical
malpractice insurance costs are driving doctors out of Oregon.
They argue that doctors in rural Oregon cannot afford the high
cost of malpractice insurance and must either quit their practice
or move somewhere else. The proponents of Measure 35 claim
that the only way to resolve this issue is to amend a provision of
the Oregon Constitution that has been in effect since 1859,
when Oregon became a state.
We can solve this problem without amending the Oregon
Constitution—and we’ve already made a great start.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
68 | Statewide Measures

When I took office as Governor, one of my major concerns was
how to provide Oregonians with access to doctors in rural
Oregon. I was particularly concerned that women in rural Oregon
were losing access to obstetrical care. With broad bi-partisan
support in the 2003 legislature, we passed House Bill 3630,
which established a program to provide medical malpractice
insurance relief to rural doctors.
Through this program, SAIF—our state-owned workers’ 
compensation insurance company—is providing low-cost
malpractice insurance to rural doctors, thereby making sure
that rural Oregonians have access to health care.
We now provide low-cost malpractice insurance to over 1,000
doctors who practice in rural Oregon.
Our new program has cut the malpractice insurance rates for
obstetricians by 80 percent. Family practitioners who provide
obstetric services have seen malpractice insurance rates cut by
60 percent, and malpractice insurance rates for all other types of
rural doctors have been cut by 40 percent.

We don’t need to amend the Oregon Constitution to solve this
problem by damaging our system of jury trials. Let’s preserve
our ability to create flexible solutions to the ever-changing world
of health care costs.

I urge you to vote NO on Measure 35.
Theodore R. Kulongoski
Governor

(This information furnished by Theodore R. Kulongoski.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Family Doctor Warns Oregonians:

Constitutional Amendment 35:

The wrong prescription for a misdiagnosed problem.

As a family physician, my mission is to care for my patients, not
limit their rights. And as a veteran who has fought for my
country, I am deeply opposed to any effort to limit our freedom
and Constitutional rights.

That’s why I’m urging my patients to vote No on Amendment 35.
It’s too drastic and goes too far.

The vast majority of my colleagues are excellent physicians. I
would trust them with my life. But there are a small handful of
bad practitioners out there- five percent according to the
National Practitioner’s Database- who create 55% of all cases of
terrible negligence and error. And this amendment does
nothing to improve the safety of our patients or crackdown
on negligent physicians creating problems for the rest of us.
Even making physicians use a computer to write down prescrip-
tions could save a lot of lives.
I’ve been an active member of the Oregon Medical Association
since 1976, and would like nothing more than to see premiums
go down. But Constitutional Amendment 35 attacks the 
victims of bad medicine, instead of an out-of-control
insurance industry that continues to hike rates for everyone.
Instead of targeting patients, we should make insurance
companies open their books and shed light on ever increasing
rate hikes.
Don’t be fooled by the insurance and pharmaceutical
companies’ slick ad campaign. This amendment would limit
patients’ rights and do nothing to control health care costs. And
Constitutional Amendment 35 asks Oregonians to give up a
basic, fundamental right. Once you lose that right, it won’t be
easy to ever get it back. So exercise another right:

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

VOTE NO ON CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 35

(This information furnished by Dr. Thomas Saddoris.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

MOM WHOSE SON SURVIVES MEDICAL MALPRACTICE

URGES “NO” VOTE ON 35

My name is Kathy Brooks and I want to urge Oregonians to
consider how this Constitutional Amendment would hurt real
people like my son, Jerry.
I personally experienced the trauma of medical negligence while
giving birth to my son. Jerry’s 7-years-old and he’s a beautiful,
blond-haired, blue-eyed boy. But he’s also a quadriplegic
because of a health provider’s negligence. Jerry’s unable to sit,
stand, crawl, or even raise his head. He can’t speak. He’ll never
even say “Mommy.”
When I went to the hospital to deliver him in August of 1997, I
asked for a Caesarian, but my doctor said she didn’t believe in it
for the comfort of the mother. She said I had to “buck up” and
go through labor.
I was kept in labor over 48 hours.

I found out later there were clear signs my baby was in distress.
My baby had been suffocating in the womb. Emergency proce-
dures saved his life. But I was told he would never speak or
move, and that he probably would not live to the age of 2.

My husband and I hired an attorney because it was the only way
to find out what really happened. Until we pursued this in court,
we were given the same insurance company run-around.
Jerry will require a lifetime of care, and it will be hard. The
insurance company “experts” suggested we only deserved
money to cover Jerry’s two years of projected life. Today he’s
seven, and while I can’t disclose the terms of the settlement, I
can tell you that we would have never been able to get adequate
compensation to pay the bills if this amendment was in effect.
Don’t give your rights away. Please join me and vote “No” on 35.

Kathy Brooks, mom

(This information furnished by Kathy Brooks.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGON FIRE FIGHTERS:

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 35 WILL HURT

OREGONIANS

Fire Fighters Urge a NO Vote on
Constitutional Amendment 35!

Oregon’s firefighters are on the front lines of our communities
every day. It is our mission to protect the public’s health and
safety.
We take our mission seriously and we want Oregonians to know
that Constitutional Amendment 35 won’t do anything to
make Oregonians safer.

• Constitutional Amendment 35 won’t fix the problem of

medical negligence.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
69 | Statewide Measures

• Constitutional Amendment 35 won’t improve access to health

care.

• Constitutional Amendment 35 won’t lower the price of pre-

scription drugs.

• Constitutional Amendment 35 won’t control health insurance

costs for providers or patients.

Firefighters are constantly reminded of what happens when
things go terribly wrong. We know from experience what it is like
for families to lose everything, to lose loved ones, to lose their
quality of life. We want Oregonians to know that Constitutional
Amendment 35 will hurt Oregonians by taking away their rights
to pursue justice when faced with losses caused by severe
medical negligence.
Instead of limiting our basic rights, we should first look at
real solutions:

• Let’s reform the insurance industry and shed more light on

how they set rates. A good place to start is to require
insurance companies to go through public hearings before
rates can be increased.

• We should do more to give patients and families better

information about whether their health care provider has a
history of negligence.

Firefighters are the first line of defense when protecting Oregon
families from tragedy. The right to pursue justice is a protection
Oregonians should never vote away.
Oregon Fire Fighters urge Oregonians to protect our rights and
vote No on Constitutional Amendment 35.
Bob Livingston
Oregon State Fire Fighters Council

(This information furnished by Bob Livingston, Oregon State Fire Fighters
Council.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

An Important Message from United Seniors of Oregon, Gray
Panthers, Association of Retired Citizens and the Oregon
Alliance of Retired Americans:

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 35

UNFAIRLY TARGETS OREGON’S SENIORS

We should always be very careful before we allow anyone to
take away a basic constitutional right. In the case of
Constitutional Amendment 35, seniors should be especially
concerned.

That is because Constitutional Amendment 35

unfairly threatens Oregon seniors.

Medical mistakes are a genuine problem – between 700 and
1,800 people die from them every year in Oregon, according to
the Patient Safety Commission. Many more suffer injuries that
change their life forever.
Constitutional Amendment 35, bankrolled by the pharma-
ceutical and insurance industries, would put a tight limit on
what a victim could receive in what are called “non-economic”
damages.

Seniors are the most cruelly targeted by this limit. Non-economic
damages are often the only way that older people who do not
earn big paychecks can receive adequate compensation for their
injury.

Why? Because loss of future income is used to calculate

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

“economic” damages. If you are older, it is assumed that you
have little or no future earning power.

The bottom line for seniors:

The effect of Constitutional Amendment 35 is to say if you

are a victim of medical malpractice, and you are older,

you just aren’t worth as much.

What could be more unfair than that?

The other cruel irony of this limit of one of our constitutional
rights is:

• It will do nothing to lower the cost of prescription drugs.
• It will do nothing to reduce medical errors or insurance

rates.

• It will actually reduce accountability for those who practice

negligent or reckless medicine.

It is clear why the insurance and drug companies are

bankrolling this measure.

It is even clearer why Ore g o n ’s seniors should firmly reject it.

VOTE NO ON CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 35

Unfair to Seniors. Wrong for Oregon.

(This information furnished by Michael Arken, President, Oregon Alliance
for Retired Americans; James (Jim) Davis, Oregon Association for Retired
Citizens, Portland Gray Panthers, United Seniors of Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

An important message from John Wish, Economic Pro f e s s o r:

READ THE DATA

REJECT CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 35

Here in Oregon, we’ve seen a lot of attempts to amend our
Constitution. We’ve learned we’ve got to be smart about them
and examine the facts beyond the claims of sponsors.

As voters contemplate this Constitutional Amendment, I would
stress to them what I’ve worked hard to teach my students: the
importance of independent research and review.
For Constitutional Amendment 35, the data are clear: limiting
jury awards do not control insurance premiums for providers or
patients.

Jury Limits Don’t Provide Rate Relief

According to the leading insurance industry analysis firm Weiss
Ratings, for the nineteen states that have enacted jury limits,
premiums rose 48.2 percent over the 11 year period from 1991
to 2002. This increase was at a higher rate than states without
jury limits.
Source: www.weissratings.com

Doctors Are Not Fleeing Oregon

According to a new study by the nonpartisan Public Citizen,
physicians are not fleeing Oregon. Government data from the
Oregon Office of Rural Health show the total number of doctors
has increased from 2000 to 2004, active rural doctors have
increased, and specialists in rural Oregon have increased.
Source: www.citizen.org

Malpractice Limits Won’t Lower Health Costs

There is no statistically significant difference in per capita health
care spending between states with and without malpractice
caps, according to the Congressional Budget Office. The study
finds “even large savings in premiums can have only a small
direct impact on health care spending.”
Source: www.cbo.gov

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
70 | Statewide Measures

Medical Errors Kill Up to 195,000 Patients a Year

A new study by Healthgrades, a leading health care quality
rating firm, finds that up to 198,000 people are killed annually
from preventable medical error. That means between 700 and
1,800 patients in Oregon die each year from negligence.
Amendment 35 does not even address this problem.
Source: www.healthgrades.com

ONCE YOU CHECK THE FACTS, YOU WILL VOTE NO ON

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 35.

(This information furnished by John R. Wish, Ph.D.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

An important message from Erin Brockovich

Don’t give your rights away to the insurance lobby.

Vote NO on Constitutional Amendment 35

Four years ago, I wrote to you urging you not to let the insur-
ance industry take away your right to ask a jury for justice when
you have been injured. Well, they are at it again.

I know something about what happens to real people when they
have to go up against insurance companies and other powerful
groups. You may remember the movie about my work on behalf
of people whose community was recklessly poisoned. The
constitutional right to a trial by jury was the only reason they
were able to get justice.

Now, Constitutional Amendment 35 would limit your rights if you
have been injured by a reckless or negligent medical mistake.
And it is designed to put health care profits ahead of the health
and safety of Oregon families.
Who would benefit? An out of control insurance industry.
Insurance rates aren’t just high for doctors – they are high for 
all of us. And there are far more reasonable solutions to the
problem than limiting our right to a trial by jury.

• How about making insurance companies go through a

public hearing process before they can raise their rates?

• How about giving the public more information about

doctors who have a bad record? According to the National
Practitioners’ Database, less than 5% of doctors in the U.S.
are responsible for 55% of medical malpractice payouts.
Yet you can find out more about a contractor working on
your house than you can about a doctor who is treating you
or your loved ones.

The terrible injuries caused by negligent medical errors can
tragically change a life forever. Hopefully, it will never happen to
you, or someone you love. But it could. Don’t limit our greatest
protection- the right to trial by jury.
Sincerely,

Erin Brockovich

(This information furnished by Erin Brockovich.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

• Works to make sure that rural Oregonians have access to

quality health care from Pendleton to Reedsport.

• Created the Patient Safety Commission, who’s mission it is
to improve medical care and prevent the estimated 700 to
1,800 deaths in Oregon each year from preventable mis-
takes and other “adverse events.”

But Constitutional Amendment 35 would hurt Oregonians
instead of giving this program time to work. It’s too drastic and
it’s too early. Constitutional Amendment 35 would:

• Weaken the power of juries to hold HMOs, insurance

companies accountable for their actions.

• Do nothing to fix the very real problem of medical

negligence.

There are better solutions to the problem of medical negligence
and the high insurance rates that are going up for all of us.
But Constitutional Amendment 35 is the wrong approach for
Oregon health providers and patients. Instead, let’s give our
bipartisan approach time to deliver results. And let’s not let
special interests take away one of most basic, fundamental
rights.

Vote no on Constitutional Amendment 35.

(This information furnished by Representative Bob Jenson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OSPIRG and OREGON CONSUMER LEAGUE

Urge a “No” vote on this constitutional amendment
As Oregon’s leading consumer rights groups, we believe that
the solution of high insurance rates shouldn’t be to increase the
profits of the insurance industry and huge pharmaceutical
corporations.
And we don’t think that the solution to medical negligence
should be to take away the rights of the injured victims.
These are what Constitutional Amendment 35 does. And it’s
Oregon consumers that will pay the price.

Constitutional Amendment 35: the wrong approach

WILL NOT lower insurance rates. It hasn’t in the other states
that have taken these rights away from victims.

• It WILL make insurance companies and HMOs less

accountable, simply increase their control over your
healthcare and their profits.

WILL NOT protect patient rights or patient safety.

• It WILL prevent Oregon consumers from obtaining just

compensation for injuries caused by “reckless or
negligent” health care providers. Read the Amendment:
that’s actually what it says.

There are better solutions:

Open the insurance industry to the public

• We need real insurance reform, such as a public hearing

process to prevent rate gouging.

Instead of punishing victims, accountability for negligent or
reckless medicine.

• According to the National Practitioner Database, only 5% of

physicians create 55% of all medical malpractice cases.
Constitutional Amendment 35 actually reduces
accountability!

Victim who had penis mistakenly removed urges “NO” vote:

This may be a difficult for you to read.

It is certainly difficult for me to tell.

If you think that Constitutional Amendment 35 can’t hurt you, or
someone you love, please think again.
My name is Hurshall Ralls. A few years ago, I was diagnosed
with cancer of the bladder and prostate. When I went into sur-
gery, they went over different things that might happen. But
when I woke up afterwards, I found out that the doctor decided
to do something he never talked about to me or my wife.
During the surgery, this doctor made a visual inspection, and
decided that the cancer had spread to my penis. So he
removed it. He was wrong. There was no cancer. He didn’t
even test it.

It was devastating – to both me and my wife. I considered sui-
cide. My life will never be the same. The only thing that kept me
going was that I could get justice from a jury, and that the doctor
who did this terrible thing could be held fully accountable.
But under Amendment 35, you will lose that accountability.
The loss of my penis, the damage it has caused me, my wife
and our life together is all considered “non-economic.”
Sometimes even $500,000 for ruining a person’s life is just
not enough.
What makes me most upset about Amendment 35 is that it con-
siders me the problem, instead of the practitioner of dangerous
medicine. Believe me, I’m not the only case like this.

I know that most doctors are good. Laws and rights aren’t there
to protect us from good people, but bad ones. And if
Amendment 35 passes, a lot of that protection will disappear.
Please, learn from what happened to me. Don’t let the
insurance and pharmaceutical industries blame victims, just
to increase their profits. And never, never give up your
constitutional rights.

VOTE NO ON CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 35

(This information furnished by Hurshall Ralls.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

An important message from Republican Legislator Rep. Bob
Jenson:

Let Oregon’s New Bipartisan Reform Work. Vote NO on 35.

Last Legislative session, a bi-partisan group of legislators got
together to work for meaningful solutions to address rural med-
ical malpractice rates. By working together, we enacted reforms
that lower rural doctor’s premiums without taking away the rights
of victims of grievous medical error and negligence.
This new innovative program just started a few months ago
and holds great promise. Let’s give our homegrown
common-sense reform a chance to work.
Our bi-partisan approach under House Bill 3630:

• Reduces rural malpractice insurance premiums by as much

as 80%.

next four years.

• Provides millions in malpractice insurance relief over the

• Is already helping the vast majority or rural doctors, with

over 1,000 enrolled since January.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
71 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

Better Patient information

• It’s easier to learn about the contractor doing repairs to

your kitchen than it is to find out about the background of
the surgeon about to operate on you.

We urge you to vote “No” on this

unnecessary and dangerous change to the Constitution.

Maureen Kirk, OSPIRG
Jason Reynolds, Oregon Consumer League

(This information furnished by Maureen Kirk, Oregon State Public Interest
Research Group; Jason Reynolds, Oregon Consumer League.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Argument in Opposition

Health Care Coalition Opposes Drug and Insurance Industry

Campaign to Weaken Patients’ Rights

Oregonians for Health Security strongly opposes Constitutional
Amendment 35. Our coalition of consumer groups, health
organizations, caregivers, seniors and small business owners are
working on three main objectives: controlling health care costs,
lowering prescription drug prices, and winning coverage
Oregonians can count on. This amendment fails to address any
of these critical challenges.
Oregonians deserve quality, affordable, and reliable health
care. But Constitutional Amendment 35 is not the solution-
it will only let pharmaceutical and insurance companies continue
to make millions in profits while 511,000 Oregonians remain
uninsured.

Who’s bankrolling Constitutional Amendment 35?

AFT Oregon and the President of
It’s Health Care Affiliate, local 5017

Oregon Federation of Nurses and Health Professionals

Urges a NO Vote on Constitutional Amendment 35

Protect Patients, Not the Insurance Industry

Nurses and health care professionals work on the frontlines of
medicine every day. It’s not just a job to us: there is nothing
more important than the health, safety and well-being of our
patients. We also respect and value the good doctors that we
work with.

We believe that high insurance rates are a problem for patients
and doctors. But Constitutional Amendment 35 will do
nothing to control insurance rates.
The evidence for this is clear: states that have established limits
on what a person can receive as compensation for their injuries
have not seen reductions in insurance rates for anyone. All these
limits do is increase the bottom line for insurance companies
and hurt our patients.

We need insurance reform. There are many things we can do to
improve patient care and reduce insurance rates. But taking
away the rights of people who are the victims of tragic circum-
stances isn’t one of them.

One of the most basic credos of medicine is “First, do no harm.”
Constitutional Amendment 35 will harm the people we have
promised to help.

For the sake of our patients and
the good doctors we work with:

PLEASE VOTE NO ON CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 35.
Kathleen Geroux, RN
President, Oregon Federation of Nurses and Health

Professionals Local 5017

Richard Schwarz, 
Executive Director, American Federation of Teachers -

Oregon

(This information furnished by Kathy Geroux, President, Oregon
Federation of Nurses and Health Professionals; Richard Schwarz,
American Federation of Teachers-Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
72 | Statewide Measures

•   Pharmaceutical Companies

•   Insurance Companies

•   HMOs

Those who already have too much control

over our health care.

Read the ballot title: Measure 35 limits the rights of patients who
suffer “injuries caused by healthcare provider’s negligence and
recklessness.”
Instead of limiting our rights, we should do more to lower the
cost of health care. Improving patient safety and reforming the
insurance are reasonable places to start.

• Provide better information to patients: Oregonians

deserve transparency around the true cost of health care,
from hospital charges to insurance premium increases.

• Shedding more light on insurance companies by holding

hearings on any rate increases.

• Lower the cost of prescription drugs by expanding

Oregon’s Prescription Drug Pool to include all businesses
and the 780,000 Oregonians without prescription drug
coverage.

The high cost of health care is crippling our economy. Instead
of limiting our rights, patients, providers, business, and govern-
ment should work together to bring down the cost of health
care. We need real reform, not insurance and pharmaceutical
company attacks on our rights.
PLEASE VOTE NO ON CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 35!

(This information furnished by Maribeth Healey, Oregonians for Health
Security.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGON AFL-CIO:

MEASURE 35 WON’T REDUCE HEALTH COSTS

UNFAIRLY PENALIZES VICTIMS

Constitutional Amendment 35 will do nothing to lower the
cost of health care in Oregon.

Constitutional Amendment 35 will not fix the problem of soaring
health insurance costs. And, studies show that limiting compen-
sation to victims will do nothing to reduce health insurance
premiums.

For our analysis of the impacts of this measure, go to
www.oraflcio.org.

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

We don’t need to change our justice system; we need to
deal with doctors who have a history of malpractice.
We need open public databases that make it easier to identify
the small percentage of doctors who are responsible for the
majority of malpractice cases. Right now it’s easier to see how
many mistakes a building contractor has on his record than to
find out which doctors have a history of negligence.
There are other reasonable solutions that should be tried to
before we limit our constitutional right to justice from a jury.

Insurance companies should be forced to disclose how they set
their rates and how little their profits are affected by malpractice
cases. We should require insurance companies to go through a
public hearing process and get approval from the Insurance
Commissioner before they hike rates.
Constitutional Amendment 35 is backed by the pharma-
ceutical and insurance industries to boost their profits and
make it more difficult for working Oregonians to hold them
accountable.
Insurance and drug companies already have too much control
over our healthcare. Now they’re trying to gain more control at
our expense. They want to make it harder for the victims of
medical malpractice to pursue justice and seek compensation
for their losses.
Don’t let insurance and pharmaceutical companies take
away the right of working families to have their day in court.

We recommend a No vote on Constitutional Amendment 35.
Tim Nesbitt
President,
Oregon AFL-CIO

Brad Witt
Secretary/Treasurer,
Oregon AFL-CIO

(This information furnished by Tim Nesbitt, President, Oregon AFL-CIO)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Pendleton mom asks:

Before voting on

Constitutional Amendment 35, please read my story.

Because this could happen to your family.

My name is Theresa Booth, and I live in Pendleton, Oregon. I
remember the day I found out I was pregnant – I was so excited
and happy. I wanted to make sure I did everything right: I took
all the tests, went to the doctor and did what he instructed.

The tests showed that my baby was due in December. But the
doctor mistakenly set the due date two months ahead of
schedule. Later we learned the signs were everywhere that he
had made a terrible mistake, and the doctor repeatedly ignored
all of them. I didn’t go into labor, so he scheduled a C-section.
An ultra-sound was done which showed that my baby was
nowhere near full-term, but he performed the surgery anyway.
Because Michael was born two months early he has profound
birth defects. His lungs weren’t fully formed. He has cerebral
palsy. He has undergone multiple surgeries. He will never be
able to care for himself.
Constitutional Amendment 35 is very simple. It is a measure
that would protect the doctor who did this, instead of
protecting Michael.

The insurance and pharmaceutical companies behind this
measure will tell you, “Oh, don’t worry about them. $500,000 is
plenty to take care of Michael’s pain.” I’m glad it is so easy for
them to put a price on a lifetime of suffering.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
73 | Statewide Measures

But even $500,000 for forever affecting a family’s quality of life
sometimes just isn’t enough.
But this isn’t about money. Amendment 35 will take away the
only accountability that will force insurance companies – and
yes, the medical profession – to do what it takes to stop the
kind of reckless and negligent behavior that destroyed my son’s
life.
It is too late for Michael. But it’s not too late for others. The
power is in your hands.

VOTE NO ON CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 35

(This information furnished by Theresa Booth.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The Brain Injury Association of Oregon Opposes

Constitutional Amendment 35:

The Brain Injury Association represents Oregonians who have
suffered a traumatic brain injury and their families.

Our members strongly oppose this constitutional amendment
because it asks us to give up our rights in exchange for vague
promises about future cost reduction.

Jury Limits Hurt Victims

The lifetime cost of care for a survivor of a severe brain injury
can easily exceed $5 million. And this does not include lost
earnings of the survivor or the value of the time and foregone
earnings of family members who care for a person with brain
injury. Nor does it take into account the devastation that severe
brain injury cases bring to a family’s quality of life.

Put yourself in the victim’s place. If your life had been cata-
strophically changed by the action of a health care provider who
is negligent or reckless, how would you feel about a “one size
fits all” limit on damages? This is what this constitutional
amendment would permit.

Trust Juries Not Insurance Companies

Too often, survivors of a brain injury need to recover damages
through our civil justice system in order to pay for rehabilitation
and long-term care. All these people ask is that their case be
judged fairly, based on evidence and facts. All they ask is that a
jury sort out the critical decisions for care. These decisions
should not be left to insurance companies and HMOs.

The Brain Injury Association of Oregon believes judges and
juries are much better equipped than private insurance compa-
nies to render justice.
Let’s leave our constitution alone. Vote no on constitutional
amendment 35 and protect Oregon’s Bill of Rights.
Kristi Schaefer RN
Past President, Brain Injury Association of Oregon

(This information furnished by Kristi Schaefer, RN, Past President, Brain
Injury Association of Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

• Linda McDougal was diagnosed with breast cancer when

none existed. Because the hospital switched her tests with
another patient’s, Linda had both breasts removed
unnecessarily.

An Important Message from Former Supreme Court Justice
Betty Roberts:

Protect Case-by-Case Justice.

Vote NO on Constitutional Amendment 35

Our Constitution states, “In all civil cases the right of Trial by
Jury shall remain inviolate.”

When our nation was founded, the right to jury trial was
considered fundamental to American liberty. The Bill of Rights
guarantees that Congress cannot interfere with the common law
right to jury trial. The Oregon legislature cannot interfere with
that right. But this Amendment to our Constitution would limit
that basic, fundamental right.

When Oregonians serve on juries, we decide disputes based on
the specific facts of each case. In my experience on the Oregon
Supreme Court, Oregon juries take their job seriously. Oregon
juries act generally with fairness and common sense. But
Constitutional Amendment 35 seeks to take power away
from juries; that’s a radical break from Oregon’s heritage and
tradition.
This Constitutional Amendment would undermine Oregonian’s
long-standing traditions of justice and individual responsibility by
setting arbitrary, pre-determined limits designed not for fairness,
but to protect medical industry profits.
Who should we trust with justice: independent Oregonians
serving on juries, or a few negligent health providers who
would limit their own responsibility and put profits ahead of
the health and safety of Oregon patients? There is no need to
change Oregon’s Constitution in such a drastic manner.

We need to protect case-by-case justice.
Please vote “No” on Constitutional Amendment 35.

(This information furnished by Former Supreme Court Justice Betty
Roberts.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Sometimes even $500,000 for ruining a person’s life is just
not enough.

By arbitrarily limiting “non-economic” damages- or “quality of
life” money- this measure unfairly hits those like stay-at-home
moms, who might not earn big paychecks, but still contribute to
society.
Being injured unnecessarily is hard enough. Being told you
just aren’t worth as much is just not fair.

Constitutional Amendment 35 is the wrong solution and would
do nothing to improve our safety or address the very real
problem of medical malpractice.
Insurance Companies already have too much power over
our health; please vote no on Constitutional Amendment 35
and protect our health and our access to justice.
Governor Barbara Roberts
Laura Bridges
Chair, NARAL Pro-Choice Oregon

(This information furnished by Governor Barbara Roberts, Laura Bridges,
President, NARAL Pro-Choice Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Health Care Industry Lobbyists Admit:

Jury Limits Won’t Lower Insurance Premiums

Some campaigns will promise just about anything to change our
Constitution. The insurance and drug companies behind this
amendment are no exception.

But when proponents go “on the record,” the story becomes
clearer. But don’t take our word for it, hear what jury limits
advocates say themselves:

“We wouldn’t tell you or anyone that the reason to pass
tort reform would be to reduce insurance rates.”

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 35:

UNFAIR TO OREGON WOMEN AND FAMILIES

-Sherman Joyce, American Tort Reform Association,
President. Liability Week, July 19, 1999.

The cost of healthcare and prescription drugs have sky-
rocketed in Oregon, but Constitutional Amendment 35 will
do nothing to lower the cost of health care.
So why would the big drug companies, HMOs, and insurance
companies spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to pass
Constitutional Amendment 35 in Oregon?

Constitutional Amendment 35 protects the profits of health care
providers. And Amendment 35 limits the ability for working
women and stay-at-home moms to hold health care providers
accountable for their mistakes.

It’s unfair to let insurance and drug companies predetermine a
compensation limit to victims who’ve been terribly injured
without knowing the specific facts of an individual case.
What medical negligence means to women:

• Theresa Booth of Pendleton had her pregnancy due date

mistakenly set two month ahead of schedule. Theresa was
given an emergency C-section, and her child was born with
profound birth defects, cerebral palsy, and will require a
lifetime of care.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
74 | Statewide Measures

“I don’t think we would argue that the premiums are
likely to go down. We believe it will have the effect of
reducing the increases in the future. And one of the reasons
the premiums won’t go down is that even if noneconomic
damages are capped, the losses for economic loss, medical
expenses, for example, are still in this current environment
escalating at, medical inflation is running in the double
digits. I forget exactly what it was last year. So even if you
were to cap noneconomic damages, the economic
damages will still cause acceleration in the premiums.
So it would not go down, I want to clarify if I misspoke
and said I thought the premiums would go down.”

-Cliff Webster, representing the Washington State Medical
Association & Chairman of the Washington Liability Reform
Coalition, testifying before the Washington State Legislature,
House Judiciary Committee, Feb. 21, 2003.

“[M]any tort reform advocates do not contend that
restricting litigation will lower insurance rates, and I’ve
never said that in 30 years.”

-Victor Schwartz, General Counsel of the American Tort
Reform Association, as quoted in “Tort Reforms Don’t Cut

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

Liability Rates, Study Says,” published in Business Insurance,
July 19, 1999.

(This information furnished by Charlie Burr, Coalition for Real Insurance
Reform.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

CENTER FOR JUSTICE AND DEMOCRACY:

Pick common sense over false promises of savings

from Insurance Industry

Laws that restrict the rights of injured consumers to go to
court do not produce lower insurance costs or rates, and
insurance companies that claim they do are severely
misleading the public.

The insurance industry claims that enactment of Constitutional
Amendment 35 will cause insurance rates to stabilize and even
fall.
So the question is, have insurance rates dropped in states that
have enacted “tort reforms?” Does enactment of “tort reform”
lead to lower insurance rates?

The answer is unequivocally no, according to a report released
by our organization, Premium Deceit -- the Failure of “Tort
Reform” to Cut Insurance Prices.
The study finds without question that laws that restrict
injured consumers’ rights to go to court have failed to cut
insurance costs or rates.

The report found, “Despite years of claims by insurance compa-
nies that rates would go down following enactment of tort
reform, we found that tort law limits enacted since the mid-
1980s have not lowered insurance rates in the ensuing
years. States with little or no tort law restrictions have experi-
enced approximately the same changes in insurance rates as
those states that have enacted severe restrictions on victims’
rights.”

In our history, there has probably never been anything like the
current corporate assault on our civil jury system. Over the last
20 years, the nation’s largest businesses have been advancing a
legislative agenda to limit their liability for causing injuries. Now
they are out to change Oregon’s Constitution at the expense of
your Bill of Rights.

Vote NO on Constitutional Amendment 35.

Joanne Doroshow
Executive Director, Center for Justice and Democracy
Co-Author, Premium Deceit

(This information furnished by Joanne Doroshow, Center for Justice and
Democracy.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon’s Attorney General Urges Voters to

Protect Our Constitutional Jury Rights

As your Attorney General, I have worked hard to protect Oregon
consumers from anti-competitive and deceptive conduct and to
ensure access for all to civil justice.
I believe we can work for a sound health care system for

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
75 | Statewide Measures

providers and patients without amending our Oregon
Constitution to limit Oregonians’ right to a jury trial in cases of
medical negligence. Constitutional Amendment 35 would make
it more difficult for Oregonians to have our day in court and
would limit Oregonians’ right to case-by-case justice.
Our jury system works. Oregonians are fundamentally fair people
and can be trusted with the decisions we ask them to make as
jurors. And Oregonians harmed by negligence, whatever its
source, should always have complete and open access to our
justice system. Each case should be decided on its individual
merits by an impartial jury, not by an arbitrary, pre-determined
limit.

When our nation was founded, the right to jury trial was
considered fundamental to American liberty.

Thomas Jefferson once wrote, “The wisdom of our sages
and the blood of our heroes has been devoted to the
attainment of trial by jury.”

And the founding fathers were deeply suspicious of efforts to
take away this basic, fundamental right.

“Trial by jury is the best appendage of freedom. Guard with
jealous attention the public liberty. Suspect anyone who
approaches that jewel.” -Patrick Henry, 1788

Once we vote away that “appendage of freedom” even in part, it
will be hard to restore it.

We should protect our right to a complete, impartial jury trial.
Please join me in voting no on Constitutional Amendment 35.

— Attorney General Hardy Myers 

(This information furnished by Attorney General Hardy Myers.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

No on Measure 35

Insurance companies and HMOs already have too much
power and influence over the medical care we receive. But
now they want more.

Read the ballot title: Measure 35 denies rights to those who

suffer “patient injuries caused by healthcare provider’s negli-
gence and recklessness.”

Health care costs are out of control. But lawsuits filed by

patients injured due to negligence and recklessness contribute
only 1/3 of 1% to overall health care costs.

We need to get health care costs under control. Vote NO

on 35.

SEIU: Leading the fight

For lower health care costs

For Oregon workers and taxpayers.

SEIU helped lead the fight to establish a prescription drug

purchasing pool for Oregon. The pool needs to be broadened.

Our representatives on the Public Employees’ Benefit Board
have helped to keep state worker health care costs below the
state average.

Our in-home caregivers care for the elderly and disabled in

their own homes. This care saves taxpayers’ dollars and allows
Oregon seniors to live independently at home with dignity.

Our nursing home workers successfully lobbied for more fed-
eral funding for long-term care so that the medically frail would
not be shut out of skilled nursing facilities.

continued ➔

Measure 35 Arguments

Health care costs won’t decrease if Measure 35 passes.

Working families in states that have adopted similar laws
still suffer from health care hyperinflation.

Some Oregonians want to blame the victims of out-of-control

health care costs and make workers pay more for premiums,
co-pays, and deductibles. They want to limit our right to protect
ourselves from unscrupulous healthcare providers.

• Let’s rein in the greed of the insurance industry.
• Let’s force insurance companies to justify rate

• Let’s use our state’s purchasing power to lower drug

increases.

costs.

• Let’s examine hospitals charges to see if patients are

subsidizing elaborate, frequently unnecessary,
expansion.

Vote NO on Measure 35.

Join SEIU in finding real solutions

to rising health care costs.

www.SEIU503.org

(This information furnished by Arthur Towers, Service Employees
International Union Local 503, OPEU.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
76 | Statewide Measures

Explanatory Statement

Ballot Measure 36 amends the Oregon Constitution to

declare that the policy of the State of Oregon and its political
subdivisions is that “only a marriage between one man and one
woman shall be valid or legally recognized as a marriage.”

Under state statutes, a marriage is a civil contract entered into

by a male and a female who solemnize the marriage by declar-
ing “that they take each other to be husband and wife.” There is
ongoing litigation concerning whether the current marriage
statutes are valid under the Oregon Constitution. Ballot Measure
36 adds to the Oregon Constitution a statement of policy that
only a marriage between one man and one woman is valid or
legally recognized as a marriage.

Committee Members:
Kelly Clark
Tim Nashif
Roger Gray
Maura Roche
Kathleen Beaufait

Appointed by:
Chief Petitioners
Chief Petitioners
Secretary of State
Secretary of State
Members of the Committee

(This committee was appointed to provide an impartial explanation of the
ballot measure pursuant to ORS 251.215.)

Measure 36

Proposed by initiative petition to be voted on at the General
Election, November 2, 2004.

Ballot Title36

AMENDS CONSTITUTION: ONLY MARRIAGE BETWEEN
ONE MAN AND ONE WOMAN IS VALID OR LEGALLY
RECOGNIZED AS MARRIAGE
RESULT OF “YES” VOTE: “Yes” vote adds to Oregon constitu-
tion declaration of policy that only marriage between one man
and one woman is valid or legally recognized as marriage.
RESULT OF “NO” VOTE: “No” vote retains existing constitution
without a provision declaring that only marriage between one
man and one woman is valid or legally recognized as marriage.
SUMMARY: Amends constitution. Oregon statutes currently
provide that marriage is a civil contract entered into in person
between individuals of the opposite sex, that is, between males
and females at least 17 years of age who solemnize the
marriage by declaring “they take each other to be husband and
wife.” The existing Oregon Constitution contains no provision
governing marriage. Currently, the State of Oregon recognizes
out-of-state marriages that are valid in the state where per-
formed, unless the marriage violates a strong public policy of
Oregon. Measure adds to Oregon Constitution a declaration that
the policy of the State of Oregon and its political subdivisions is
that “only a marriage between one man and one woman shall be
valid or legally recognized as a marriage.”
ESTIMATE OF FINANCIAL IMPACT: There is no financial effect
on state or local government expenditures or revenues.

Text of Measure
The Constitution of the State of Oregon is amended as follows:

It is the policy of Oregon, and its political subdivisions,

that only a marriage between one man and one woman shall
be valid or legally recognized as a marriage.
NOTE: Boldfaced type indicates new language; [brackets and
italic] type indicates deletions or comments.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
77 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments
Argument in Favor

CULTURE WAR!

Traditional values are under attack, and sexual perverts are
attempting to strain the definition of marriage far beyond what
God has ordained. The Word of the Lord must be legislated as
Oregon public policy.
In the Holy Bible, Saint Paul says that Christians should remain
single and abstain from sex. The New Testament says that
people should get married only if they are too weak-willed to
abstain from sex:
“It is well for a man not to touch a woman…. It is well … to
remain single as I do. But if they cannot exercise self-control,
they should marry. For it is better to marry than to be aflame
with passion.” (I Corinthians 7:1, 8-9)
Marriage is not sacred. Marriage is for wimps and sissies!

Oregon public policy should define marriage in accordance with
divinely inspired Scripture. Therefore, marriage licenses should
be granted only to those persons who have been certified by
professional psychiatric examination to be too weak-willed to
abstain from sex.
Oh, by the way, although Jesus never said a single word
condemning homosexuality, if heterosexuals can’t get married,
homosexuals shouldn’t be allowed to marry either—well, unless
they’re too weak-willed to abstain. Sissies!
The sissy institution of marriage must not be perverted by
sinners who are capable of abstaining! The sacred union of
church and state must prohibit the immoral union of men and
women capable of the discipline of sexual abstinence. We are
not saved by either faith or good works. We are saved by
religious-right legislation!
Freedom of religion and equal treatment under law is simply the
special right to sin, because our tradition is the one and only
truth! And our tradition (that is, our personal moral opinions)
should become law.

AGREE WITH US OR BURN IN HELL!

(This information furnished by M. Dennis Moore, Traditional Prejudices
Coalition.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

MARRIAGE IS SACRED!

The Bible says that marriage is for procreation. God made
Adam and Eve, and Adam and Eve made Cain and Abel, not
an empty nest.
Marriage is for procreation. If you’re not pro-Creation, you’re
anti-God. And once a marriage has been solemnized, sex is
serious business. The solemnity of sex must not be abused for
sinful pleasures. Sex is for procreation, not recreation. And
marriage is for breeding purposes.
Therefore, it should be Oregon public policy that

• Homosexuals may not marry.
• Infertile persons may not marry.
• Men with vasectomies may not marry.
• Women with hysterectomies may not marry.
• Post-menopausal women may not marry.
• Persons planning to use birth control may not marry.
• Non-virgins may not marry (Deuteronomy 22:13-21).
• Inter-racial couples may not marry (Deuteronomy 7:3).

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
78 | Statewide Measures

And couples who fail to conceive within two years ought to
have their marriage licenses revoked.
Additionally, the Bible says that

• Divorced persons may not marry (Luke 16:18).
• And if a man dies without leaving a male heir, it is his brother’s
responsibility to impregnate the widow (Genesis 38:6-10). If he
refuses, he shall be fined one shoe (Deuteronomy 25:5-10).

This is the sacred word of the Lord, steadfast and unchanging.
Traditional morality must become Oregon public policy. All of it.
And the older the tradition, the better. The separation of
church and state be damned. In order to protect the sanctity of
marriage and the sacred institution of heterosexual procreation,
unequal treatment and discrimination must be legislated
consistently against all persons who cannot or will not breed as
God intended. It is God’s will that we multiply and fill the Earth
and finally subdue it when the population explosion self-
implodes. Praise God!
Love is not good enough a reason to marry, because marriage is
only for

HETEROSEXUALBREEDING.COM

(This information furnished by M. Dennis Moore, Defense of Heterosexual
Breeding Coalition.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

THE TRADITIONAL FAMILY IS UNDER ATTACK!

Frightening new unprecedented social changes are threaten-
ing old traditional values. And these attacks on tradition have
been escalating--for millennia!
First there was Original Sin when Eve disobeyed God! Then the
Flood! Then Abraham abandoned the traditional practice of
human sacrifice! Then Jews instituted the modern covenant of
circumcision! Then Moses brought down from Mount Sinai a
bunch of new-fangled Laws on stone tablets! And later Jesus
abolished them and preached instead the radical new Golden
Rule!
Polygamy fell out of favor! Women were no longer mere pieces
of property belonging to men! Next these uppity women
demanded the right to vote! Families could no longer own
slaves! Prohibition saved the family from destruction by Demon
Rum! The nineteenth-century extended families on American
farms were destroyed by the 1950s social engineering of the
“Leave It to Beaver” suburban cookie-cutter nuclear families!
Blacks refused to ride in the back of the bus! Women demanded
equal pay for equal work! Single parents demanded respect!
Gays and lesbians demanded an end to hatred and oppression!
Flower children protested traditional mass-murder warfare
and genocide! Divorce skyrocketed! The silence surrounding
child abuse was broken!
Frightening social changes continued! And then the religious
right began a righteous backlash! First they accused gays and
lesbians of being promiscuous! And when this failed, they began
accusing them of having long-term committed monogamous
relationships and wanting to get married!
Where will it all end? After 6,000-some years of frightening
attacks on old traditional values, will history never cease to
unfold? Will God never stop throwing all of these radical social
changes at us?
My friends, there is a simple answer. All you have to do is

VOTE TO TURN THE CLOCK BACK!

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

It’s really that simple!
Now, which one of these radical social changes will this meas-
ure turn the clock back to? Oh, come on, let’s just

LEAVE IT TO BEAVER!

(This information furnished by M. Dennis Moore, The Beaver State
Defense of Beaver Coalition.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

As you know, Oregon once again is in the spotlight on an

issue that has national implications---the definition of marriage.

I am very concerned about what has taken place in

Multnomah and Benton Counties regarding same-sex marriage.
Clearly, the institution of marriage is being challenged and we
must stand up as citizens to protect traditional marriage in
Oregon and America.

I strongly urge you to vote yes on Ballot Measure 36 and

defend the definition of marriage as a union between one man
and one woman. Without the passing of this measure, I am
afraid that the actions of Multnomah and Benton Counties will
lead to an unfortunate conclusion by the Oregon Supreme
Court.

This issue cuts to our core values. Defining marriage is so

important that a huge number of Oregonians joined together in
successfully qualifying this measure for the ballot in a very short
time. Clearly, Oregonians want an issue of this significance to be
decided directly by voters, not Supreme Court Justices.

Measure 36 is on your ballot. It is now time to vote. Your yes
vote will change Oregon’s constitution, defining marriage as the
union between one man and one woman. This will strengthen
the historical definition that is in Oregon statute, and protect our
traditional idea of marriage by adding it to the Oregon
Constitution.

Our core values are too important. Don’t let them be defined
by the courts, behind closed doors. Let YOUR voice be heard.
Vote yes on Measure 36.

(This information furnished by State Representative Susan Morgan.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Measure 36 - Why Does It Matter?

The Children

A mother and a father are necessary for a child’s emotional

well-being and development. Many of us know the pain of not
receiving a father’s or a mother’s love and attention. In same-

sex marriage, this is not even a possibility.

If we “normalize” homosexual marriage, the state will be forced
to place foster children in same-sex households. Schools, and
society, will be teaching the next generation the “equality” of
same-sex marriage, changing our views of the importance of

gender and the nature of the family. It will cause kids to question

their sexual identity, and increase experimentation with a
behavior that is neither emotionally nor physically healthy.

Marriage between a man and a woman provides the best

environment for our childrens’ success.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
79 | Statewide Measures

Societal Structure

The basic ties in relationships that keep our society together, are

found in the family. Where the family struggles, so does the
society. Changing our view of this important “building block”

will affect us all!

We need to reserve the approval of society for those behaviors
that further its success. If we must affirm every behavior, then

disorder is the ultimate result.

Measure 36 affirms society’s ability to support those

behaviors that lend it stability and coherence.

Measure 36 is not about denying “rights”.

The real issue is about approval, and gaining the respect of
society. Homosexuals already have the same individual rights

as everyone else, and can live as they please without threat from

the law.

Measure 36 is not about hate.

We continue to interact with, be friends with, and live in the

community with those who follow a different sexual orientation.

Measure 36 is about promoting the common good.

This is best for society, and best for our children.

Vote Yes on Measure 36!

(This information furnished by Jeff Roth.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

A Timeless Institution
Throughout history there has been one consistent outlook for
civilization: mom and dad. It’s possible for unforeseen circum-
stances to defy people’s original intent. My father died very
young. Despite the hurdles it presented for my heroic mother, we
all knew the context of our family’s origin.

A missing father or mother frequently sends children on a jour-
ney to find or learn about their parent. These natural inclinations
remind us of the unique role both mother and father have in a
family.

Men and women have distinct approaches to most issues.
These distinctions give parenting incredible balance for the
health and development of children. Research continues to doc-
ument this. In truth, the further we go down the road of both
experience and social understanding, the more we confirm the
uniquely powerful contribution that fathers and mothers make in
their child’s life.
Many well-intended social experiments in the past 35 years have
left us short-changed in the end. Change is not always good just
because it’s new. It’s possible at the end of a dramatic proposal
to find many unsuspected consequences. This clearly would be
the case if we were to dramatically alter the reserved design for
marriage between a husband and wife.
Traditional marriage doesn’t reduce anyone’s value or impinge
on anyone’s rights. One man’s inability to bring the unique bene-
fits of mothering to a marriage doesn’t reduce his significance
anymore than it would for two men. It’s simply true that the
beautiful manner of motherhood is uniquely performed by mom,
and fatherhood by dad. Otherwise we must recognize all
proposals for marriage on the basis of equal significance.

Redefining marriage will not enhance anyone’s worth, but will
reduce the rights of children to live in a culture that by design
affirms the role of marriage to give them a mom and dad.

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

We urge you to vote yes on measure #36.
Michael Howden
Executive Director
Stronger Families for Oregon

(This information furnished by Michael Howden, Executive Director,
Stronger Families for Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Marriage Created, Not Contrived

Marriage is not a convenient contrivance of man but the
creation of God for the well-being and happiness of mankind.
It is intended by God to be a lifelong unity of loyalty and love
between a man, a woman, and God—the natural offspring of
that unique, God ordained relationship being children—in a safe
and healthy God centered family.
Marriage between a man and a woman is the fundamental
institution of any society. It provides the only healthy context for
procreation and the development of normal, healthy, and godly
human relationships.
The physical, emotional, spiritual, intellectual and moral
development of children, parents, and the larger society, is best
provided in this context.

To radically and fundamentally change the definition of marriage
to include what God considers an “abomination” is to reject
God’s purpose in marriage for men, women, children, and a
nation; to “exchange the Glory of God for a lie”, and to reject the
“eternal rules of order and right” which God has ordained.
Providing equivalent legal standing to unnatural relationships will
force devastating and irreversible changes to our society. The
rights of conscience, and the accompanying freedom to make
moral distinctions will be severely curtailed. Public schools and
curriculum will be required to teach that homosexual ‘marriage’
is the moral equivalent to traditional marriage. Religious fre e d o m ,
healthcare, and Social Security will all be negatively impacted.
“Professing to be wise, we become fools” (Romans 1:18-32) if
we believe judges and elected officials can arrogate to the state
the right to change what God has ordained, for light, temporal,
personal or political agendas.
Vote “YES” to amend the Oregon Constitution to preserve
marriage between a man and a woman only. Traditional
marriage must be protected from those who disdain it’s origin,
purpose, and Creator.

(This information furnished by David Crowe, Restore America.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregonians, Not Judges and Liberal Multnomah County

Commissioners Should Define Marriage in Oregon

Most Oregonians thought marriage was already concretely
defined in the Constitution. We were all shocked when four lib-
eral Multnomah County Commissioners decided to circumvent
the public process and engage their County Legal Counsel to
redefine marriage in Oregon’s Constitution. It was wrong, and
Oregonians should be outraged.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
80 | Statewide Measures

Marriage Laws Defined as Being Between One Man and

One Woman Have Been on the Books in Oregon Since 1862
No where in the United States is same sex marriage legally rec-
ognized. In Oregon, statutes have been in place since 1862,
defining marriage as being between one man and one woman.
Here is what the statute reads;
According to Chapter 106 of the Oregon Revised Statutes, mar-
riage can only be between males of 17 years of age and females
of 17 years of age. This law has been in place since 1862.

Children do Better With a Mom and a Dad

All research is conclusive. Children do better with a mother and
a father. Kyle Pruett, a clinical professor of psychiatry at Yale,
explains that fathers have distinct style of communication and
interaction with children. Infants, by 8 weeks, can tell the differ-
ence between a male and female interacting with them. This
diversity in itself provides children with a broader, richer experi-
ence of various relational interactions- more so than for children
who are raised by only one gender.

We Don’t Want Oregon to be the Only Place in America

Where Same Sex Marriage is Allowed

Few issues are more important than protection marriage in
Oregon. By not passing measure 36, and affirming what every-
one thought was already in the constitution, we will redefine the
culture of Oregon in ways we can not see or predict.

Please, Defend Marriage in Oregon, Pass Measure 36

(This information furnished by Representative Wayne Krieger, House
District 1.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Our nation’s laws are excellent teachers for young people. All
laws attempt to draw a line, to say something is good, or 
something is not good and should be discouraged. Oregon’s
laws have always limited marriage to a union between one man
and one woman, establishing a policy that only male-female
marriage is proper.
Now, some are calling for Oregon to put its stamp of approval
on same-sex marriage, a practice that God in the Bible clearly
calls wrong. Obviously, this would be a significant change in
public policy that would influence the values of many young
people.

The proponents of same-sex marriage have used activist judges
in their attack on traditional marriage. But the problem is not
ultimately activist judges. If Oregonians decided that stealing
was good, we would approve of judges overturning the will of
the people, because God says stealing is wrong. If our culture
was traditionally homosexual, we would call for overturning a
tradition that is wrong.
The question is, should the State of Oregon put its stamp of
approval on what God has clearly said is wrong? Right and
wrong are not ultimately determined by people, but by the God
who created them. Rulers are to rule in a way that pleases Jesus
Christ. When they do, they act in the best interests of all people.
Youth thinking about entering into same-sex intimate relation-
ships should not be encouraged by the government, but
discouraged from something that brings God’s displeasure.
There is no automatic right to marry. You have to be of age, you
can’t marry a close relative, you can’t marry more than one
person at a time, and you must marry someone of the opposite
sex. This is the line we have always drawn here in Oregon, and
it is the right line. It pleases God and helps our youth.

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

Dennis Tuuri for the Parents Education Association

Box 847, Canby, OR 97013 503-263-8337 peapac.org

behavioral, and health problems that have resulted in lower
academic achievement.

(This information furnished by Dennis Tuuri, Executive Director, Parents
Education Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

BALLOT MEASURE 36 AFFIRMS STATE LAW

Ballot Measure 36 affirms what Oregon law and our citizens
have long held as true. State law currently defines marriage in
Oregon Revised Statute 106.010 as being “entered into, in
person by males at least 17 years of age and females at least
17 years of age.” The law was created in 1862, only three years
after we became a state. Unfortunately, the courts think those
who wrote the Oregon Constitution and our marriage law where
not clear enough in their intent.

JUDGES AND MULTNOMAH COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SHOULD NOT BE ABLE TO CHANGE THE DEFINITION OF

MARRIAGE FOR THE ENTIRE STATE

Never before had people questioned the intent of our marriage
law. If it had not been for activists on the Multnomah County
Commission meeting secretly and without public input this
matter would not be before us. Today we are faced with letting
a questionable opinion stand or standing up and making our
opinion known.

IF MEASURE 36 FAILS AT LEAST 350 STATUTES

MUST BE CHANGED

If Oregonians don’t pass Ballot Measure 36 the legislature will be
confronted with changing at least 350 statutes. Laws ranging
from insurance, divorce, child custody, and taxes would need to
be changed. There will be plenty for the legislature to do in the
next session, without having to rewrite all the statutes that in any
way affect marriage. The task of rewriting more than 140 years
of marriage laws would be a daunting challenge by its self,
without having the other duties of a regular legislative session.

I URGE YOU SUPPORT OF BALLOT MEASURE 36

ROGER BEYER
STATE SENATOR

DISTRICT 9

(This information furnished by Senator Roger Beyer.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

A Career Educator Urges Yes Vote on Measure 36

Measure 36 Is Essential to Quality Education

Oregonians have consistently demonstrated a deep commitment
to the welfare and education of children. In other words, in
Oregon kids come first! That is a commitment we can all be
proud of.

But successful education does not begin in the classroom. It
begins at home. Educators discovered long ago that the great-
est contributor to student success is parental involvement.
The Breakdown of Marriage Hurts Kids

The breakdown of marriage and family in recent years has taken
its toll on children. It has contributed to increased emotional,

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
81 | Statewide Measures

Certainly, there are exceptional parents in even the most chal-
lenging family circumstances, and these families deserve our
support and admiration. But on the whole, students do best
when living in a home with a married mother and father.
Measure 36 will benefit Youth Today and Tomorrow
School has always been more than reading, writing, and arith-
metic. Next to home, it is where most students develop the
character and values that will shape their lives. Marriage
between one man and one woman is the ideal, is what the
community expects, and that is what should be upheld!

Without Measure 36, it is possible that non-traditional relation-
ships will have to be presented as an option equal to marriage
between one man and one woman. This will lead to confusion
for students and a conflict with what is taught at home resulting
in a breakdown of trust in the local school.
That is why Measure 36 is essential for education, because more
important to education than stable funding is a stable and
healthy family! Please vote YES on 36! It is the most important
investment you can make to a child’s education.
Please vote YES on Measure 36

Clark Brody
R e t i red Deputy Superintendent, Oregon Department of Education
Education Consultant

(This information furnished by Clark Brody, Retired Deputy
Superintendent, Oregon Department of Education, Education Consultant.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon Teachers & Educators Vote Yes on 36

As teachers and educators across the state of Oregon, we love
kids and we’ve dedicated our lives to their education. We also
understand just how much teachers and educators can help
shape the character and values of their students. It happened
for us as children, and we see it every day in our schools and
classrooms.

That’s why as teachers and educators, we are urging all
Oregonians to join us in voting YES on Measure 36. Measure 36
sends a simple, positive message to children that marriage
should be between a man and woman. It just makes sense.

Please vote Yes on 36.

Christopher W. Alsop Mindy Cornett
Donald Lentz
Linda Thornton
Mark Dorr
Shirley Burrows
Gerald Christenson Rodney Bragato
Karyn Lentz
Lauralee Furse
Thomas Stuch
John Nimmo
Kenneth Bush
Ronald Suchanek
Michael Davis
Ruth Wilhelm
Patricia Gerig
Barbara Precechtil
Reyna Butterfield
Allison Hart
William McLaughlin Nancy Jacobson
Elaine Hardman
Michael Quinn
Colleen Corcoran
Susan Akers
Rita Kenniston
Gayle Nelson
Cherry Binder
Randall Law
Larry Verdoorn
Connie Franklin
Janice Hotrum
Mary Jo Law
Linda Quinn
Marla King
Gary Kelley
Edward Guenther

Wendi Manthey
John Dracon
Deborah L. Bush
Janet Crossan
Connie Thrush
Carol Funk
Kevin Keeney
Gwen Hatt
Timothy Zietlow
Scott Ball
Mary Kuraspediani
Nancy Womersley
Kelly Benjamin
JoLynn Miller
Becky Blakely
William Suminski
Steve Smith
Paul Boring
Rick Harris

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

Marv Walker
Tom Demarest
Robin Manning
Ben Cornelius
Elaine Hall
Ronald Lepp
Kim Bates
Judy Huber
Pamela Robinson
Brian Gerards
Eric Fuchs
Charles Felton
Bob Callison
Mary Ann Holloway David Bradshaw

Raymond Garboden
Ella Garboden
Dale Robbins
Linda Nimmo
Mark Manthey
Sara Beyer
Elaine Suminski
Mary Lau
Mary Heaney
Pamela Hardy
Shirley Mann
James De Young Th.D. Nina Rapp
Joanne Nelson

Linda Verdoorn
Loren Gerig
Joe Amsberry
Donna Basting
Oscar Stenberg
Betsy Brown
Eldon Andres
Karen Callison
Marcia Robbins
Norm Scott
Nancy Cornett

Sharon Erck
Ellen Demarest

Due to word limitations, this is a partial list.

(This information furnished by Christopher W. Alsop.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Support Measure 36 -- Support Marriage

We all know what marriage is – the union of one man and

one woman. Oregon law has recognized this historical definition
since 1862. But a few activist county commissioners in
Multnomah County decided they were going to take advantage
of a perceived loop-hole in the Oregon Constitution, and
redefine marriage on their own.

Process subverted

They didn’t hold any public hearings. They didn’t give any

advance warnings. They simply began issuing marriage licenses
that were in clear violation of state law and what we all know
marriage to be. Their actions were arrogant and wrong.

We never thought we’d have to defend marriage through a cit-

izen initiative. But because the Multnomah County Commission
purposefully subverted the public process to redefine the law –
we have no other choice.

Measure 36 ensures the law continues

as we’ve understood it

The Commissioners’ goal was to force this issue into the

courts. But we all know that marriage shouldn’t be defined by
judicial action. Marriage has already been defined in the law and
through countless years of tradition.

This measure is about protecting an institution that has been

a foundation of our society for centuries. It is about ensuring
that the law continues to reflect the values and beliefs that the
overwhelming majority of Oregonians already believed were
enshrined in the law.

Overwhelming support

Earlier this year, 270,000 Oregonians signed petitions to put
this measure on the ballot. Those signatures were collected in
only five weeks – a record show of support for the institution of
marriage.

Thirty-nine other states have a similar definition of marriage as
would be enacted under this measure. It is sensible, mainstream
and ensures that marriage will continue to be what we have
always understood it to be: the union of one man and one
woman.

(This information furnished by House Speaker Karen Minnis.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
82 | Statewide Measures

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Marriage Laws Were Defined in 1862.

Most People don’t realize that in Oregon, marriage laws have
been on the books since 1862 defining marriage as being
between one man and one woman. If you were to look up the
statute, Chapter 106 of the Revised Statutes states, marriage
can only be between males of 17 years of age and females of
17 years of age. The statute couldn’t be more clear.

39 States Have Already Established Marriage Laws

39 states have established either through their constitution, or
through statute the meaning of marriage as being between
one man and one woman. No where in America is same sex
marriage legal, and it shouldn’t be made legal in Oregon.

Over 350 Oregon Statutes Would Have to be Rewritten if

Measure 36 Fails

At least 350 Revised Oregon Statutes would have to be rewritten
or thrown out placing future legislatures in a quagmire of
confusion and litigation. Marriage laws, insurance laws, probate,
child custody and many many more laws would have to be
rewritten to acknowledge same sex marriage.

The ACLU Will Demand More

If measure 36 fails, there will be mass confusion over the defini-
tion of marriage in Oregon. The ACLU will surely force costly
litigation on the state and school districts demanding that same
sex marriage become a normal component of school curricu-
lums. Teachers will be forced to teach sex education to middle
school children based on the new interpretation of marriage in
Oregon.

Measure 36 Deserves Your Support

It is important to affirm what we all thought was already in the
Oregon Constitution—marriage is a sacred covenant between
one man and one man.
House Majority Leader Wayne Scott

(This information furnished by House Majority Leader Wayne Scott.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Measure 36 Doesn’t Change Oregon’s Constitution…It
Affirms What We All Thought Was Already There

Because of the actions of some renegade County Commis-
sioners, we are faced with the battle over the meaning of
marriage in our great state. Personally, I am outraged by the
arrogance of four county commissioners who thought they alone
could rewrite over 140 years of Oregon law.
The average person on the street thought Oregon’s constitution
was clear and without compromise. But times have changed,
and open democracy has been replaced with judicial activism
and political backroom deals. I believe most Oregonians are as
outraged as I am about the actions that have brought us to this
place in time.
The ACLU and Basic Rights Oregon are the Leaders Behind
the Scenes
Four Multnomah County Commissioners, the ACLU and Basic

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

Rights Oregon are the ones who made this happen and who
forced us to collect over 270,000 signatures in just five weeks to
allow citizens of this state to have our say on the issue of
defining marriage in Oregon. Their radical agenda went forward
without a single public hearing or open meeting discussing the
implications of rewriting Oregon’s sacred marriage laws, which
date back to 1862.
Now, Oregonians Can Have Their Voices Heard

Given just five weeks to gather the necessary signatures,
Oregonians have already spoken with a loud voice by submitting
record numbers of signatures to qualify this measure for the
ballot, but now that voice must be heard on election day.

Recently, Missouri passed their amendment with over 70% of
the vote, and now it is time for Oregon to do the same, if not
stronger.

Take a stand: Vote Yes on Measure 36.

Defend the greatest institution we have left standing.

State Representative Linda Flores

(This information furnished by State Representative Linda Flores.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

An Open Letter from Senator Ben Westlund

I have worked hard in my career to open and balanced as I
have deliberated on important public policy issues. At times, I
have been at odds with my own party about various issues
ranging from tax policy to healthcare reform. I am proud of my
independence.

Recently, I have had long meaningful discussions about

Measure 36, the constitutional amendment defining marriage as
being between one man and one woman. While many people
might expect me to break once again from my party and oppose
Measure 36, they will be interested to know that I am a strong
supporter of Marriage being defined as being between one man
and one woman.

First of all, most of us believe that the Constitution intended
for marriage to be defined as being between one man and one
woman. In fact, an early Oregon statute dating to 1862 rein-
forces this fact. Most people, if they were being honest with
themselves would agree that the culture of 1859 and the legisla-
ture of 1862 had no other intention.

More importantly however is my own strong personal beliefs

about how important it is to our culture and society that we hold
on and reinforce this very important institution we know as mar-
riage. Study after study and psychiatrist and psychologist alike
point to the value and the importance of children having both a
mother and a father as role models.

Measure 36 is simple. If it passes, and I hope that it does, it

will simply confirm what most of us thought already to be true—
Marriage in Oregon is legally defined as being between one man
and one woman. Of all our cultural institutions, few are more
important and more worth protecting than marriage.

Please, Vote Yes on 36.

Senator Ben Westlund

(This information furnished by Senator Ben Westlund.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth 

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
83 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Favor

Measure 36 is the Only Way to Protect Marriage
Oregonians expect much more of their elected officials.

Our nation has the finest system of government in the world. It’s
the reason I’ve dedicated so much of my life to public service.
It’s also the reason I was deeply grieved when members of the
Multnomah County Commission authorized same-sex marriage
licenses without any public hearings, testimony or debate.
When dealing with matter as dear to the public as marriage it’s
imperative to hold fair, honest and open debate. With an issue
this big, every one deserves a chance to be heard.

It also gives policy makers the chance to weigh critical research
and understand the lasting ramifications of their decisions. In the
case of marriage, the evidence is very strong.
The Evidence Supports Historic Marriage

Children do best when raised in a home with a married mother
and father. That evidence is indisputable. They enjoy better
health, and experience fewer social, emotional, and behavioral
problems. They even score better as a group in school.

That doesn’t mean children in other family arrangements can’t
succeed, of course they can. And usually that’s the result of a
dedicated parent or parents. But taken as a whole, marriage is
very good for children, for families and for the community. It’s an
institution that deserves our support.
Measure 36 Is the Only Way to Protect Marriage.

The actions of the Multnomah County Commissioners speak
very loudly. There is a small extreme group that will try to
change marriage anyway they can. They will even skirt clear
laws that have been on the books for years.

That’s why it’s critical to vote Yes on Measure 36. Because
amending the State Constitution is the only effective way to
protect marriage.
Marriage has always been a special relationship only between a
man and a woman. Let’s keep it that way. Please Vote Yes on
Measure 36.
State Representative Gordon Anderson

(This information furnished by State Representative Gordon Anderson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Vote YES on Measure 36

It Just Makes Sense

Marriage has always been between a man and a woman. In
1863, the Oregon Legislature authorized marriage only between
members of the opposite sex. This statute reads:

Marriage is a civil contract entered into in person by males
at least 17 years of age and females at least 17 years of
age …”

Oregon now has over 350 laws recognizing marriage as between
a man and a woman.
The Laws of Nature

Of course this 141-year-old law isn’t surprising. From the earliest
annals of recorded history, marriage has always been between a
man and a woman.
As a State Senator in rural Oregon representing hundreds of

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

ranchers and farmers, the historic record makes perfect sense. It
takes a male and a female to produce offspring. It’s just a law of
nature.
This does not mean that only married people make good
parents. Both history and our own neighborhoods are filled with
wonderful examples that prove otherwise. But they aren’t called
marriage. Marriage has always been a unique relationship
between one man and one woman.
40 States Recently Passed Laws Like Measure 36
To my knowledge, every state in the nation defines marriage as
a union between a man and a woman. Like Oregon, these laws
were thoughtfully debated and overwhelmingly passed. Then 
in 1996, because some of these laws were being challenged in
the Courts, the Federal Government, under President Clinton
passed the Defense of Marriage Act. This allowed states to
protect their marriage laws. In the last 8 years, 40 states have
done so. And this election, 10 states are pursuing Constitutional
marriage amendments like Oregon’s Measure 36.

Measure 36 is the only way to preserve marriage. Without
Measure 36, marriage will always be just one court decision
away from becoming history.
Please vote Yes on Measure 36
Gary George
State Senator

(This information furnished by Gary George, State Senator.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Seven Reasons to Vote YES on Measure 36

Vote YES on 36, Because Oregon Laws Deserve Open,
Honest Debate. Tell elitist Multnomah County Commissioners
that Oregonians don’t make laws in secret meetings with power-
ful special interest groups.
Vote YES on 36, Because Children Do Best with Both a Mom
and Dad. The research is overwhelming, children with a married
mother and father consistently do better in every measure of
well-being. It’s more important than race, economic status, edu-
cational background or neighborhood.
Vote YES on 36, Because Oregon Law Already Says
Marriage Is Between a Man and a Woman. Measure 36 is not
a new concept in Oregon. Over 350 Oregon statutes affirm what
most people have always believed: marriage is a union between
one man and one woman.
Vote YES on 36, Because It’s the Way Nature Meant it to Be.
A Marriage between a man and woman is more than just about
a loving relationship, it’s also about the laws of nature. Every
species requires a male and a female to produce offspring.
Vote YES on 36, Because 40 States Already Have Defense of
Marriage Acts. In the past eight years, 40 states have passed
new laws protecting marriage between one man and one
woman. This election ten states have Constitutional marriage
amendments on their ballots.
Vote YES on 36, Because It’s Our Last Chance to Preserve
Marriage. Oregon laws are already clear about marriage; it’s
between a man and a woman. But one activist Judge could
change that with a single decision. That’s why Measure 36 is so
important. Because even a Judge cannot change the
Constitution.
Vote YES on 36, Because Preserving Marriage Is Not
Discrimination. Measure 36 does not prevent anyone from

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
84 | Statewide Measures

having a committed relationship and does not hinder benefits. It
just preserves marriage as a unique relationship between a man
and a woman, that’s not discrimination.
Please Vote YES on Measure 36

(This information furnished by Michael White, Executive Director, Defense
of Marriage Coalition.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

A Look Back Should Lead to ‘Yes’ Vote.
In the midst of important arguments about the meaning of
marriage, it is important to remember how we got here.
Prior to March, 2004 there had never been any doubt about the
meaning of the Oregon marriage laws, or their constitutionality.
Then four members of the Multnomah County Commission
decided, without any public notice or hearing, to take the law
into their own hands and begin issuing same sex marriage
licenses–making a mockery of the Oregon Open Meetings Law
and basic principles of good government.

Multnomah County also claimed that same sex marriage
licenses are required by the Oregon Constitution–although no
court had ever so ruled, no Legislature had ever so voted, and
no citizen input had ever been heard on the question! In the
ensuing litigation over these actions, it became clear that the
County, and the special interest groups urging them on, wanted
the courts, not the People, to create a new constitutional right
for same sex marriage. Indeed it became clear that they desper-
ately wanted to avoid giving the People a vote. These groups
apparently do not believe that we are smart enough, fair enough,
or wise enough to decide such an important question. And they
wonder why citizens no longer trust their government? But this
subtly elitist view of government is not the view that was held by
our founders. Jefferson said, “I know of no safe repository of
political power but in the hands of the people, and if we think
them not enlightened enough to hold it, the remedy is not to
take it from them, but to enlighten them.”
If Multnomah County succeeds in this ill-conceived move, they
will not only have stolen an important constitutional question
from the People, but they will have further eroded citizen confi-
dence in our government. They are apparently willing to pay that
price. I am not.

(This information furnished by Kelly Clark, Attorney at Law, Defense of
Marriage Coalition.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Uncovering the Myth of Same-Sex Marriage

Advocates of same-sex “marriage” use a number of arguments
that can best be described as “myths.” The reality is often quite
different. For example:
MYTH: Defining marriage as the union of one man and one
woman is “discrimination.”
REALITY: Everyone has access to marriage on exactly the same
terms and same set of restrictions. Age, family ties, marital
status and gender all affect the ability to marry.
MYTH: Homosexuals suffer serious harm because they’re

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

denied the protections of marriage.
REALITY: Many of the “protections” granted by marriage are
already available to same-sex couples through the use of private
contractual arrangements, such as wills, durable power of
attorney, health care proxies, and life insurance policies.
MYTH: Homosexual relationships are the same as
heterosexual ones.
REALITY: Research shows that homosexuals are less likely to
enter into long-term partnerships, be sexually faithful to a
partner, and have relationships last a lifetime. Granting legal
recognition to same-sex couples in the Scandinavian countries
led to a weakening of society’s commitment to marriage across
the board.
MYTH: A “one man and one woman” definition imposes a
religious definition of marriage on civil society.
REALITY: The definition of marriage is rooted in nature itself.
The sexual union of a man and a woman is what reproduces the
human race. The durable commitment of that man and woman
to one another is what provides children with a mother and
father. Overwhelming evidence shows that this family structure
makes children happier, healthier, and more prosperous than any
alternative family form.
The real “myth” is that the benefits of marriage for society, cou-
ples and their children can continue apart its timeless definition
of a union between one man and one woman. The “reality” is
that redefining marriage could bring unintended consequences
on the next generation.

Peter Sprigg
Director, Center for Marriage and Family Studies
Family Research Council

(This information furnished by Peter Sprigg, Director, Center for Marriage
and Family Studies, Family Research Council.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Considering the Children in the Marriage Debate
Glenn T. Stanton

Why should Oregon keep marriage between males and females?
Because to say “yes” to same-sex marriage is saying “yes” to
same-sex families.
An Untested Social Experiment
No society has ever raised a generation of children in same-sex
homes. To do so is a vast, untested social experiment on
children. Two doctors admit publicly in their Lesbian Parenting
Book, “It will be interesting to see over time whether lesbian
sons have an easier or harder time developing their gender iden-
tity than do boys with live-in fathers.” We all use products where
we are assured that “no animals were harmed in the testing of
this product.” But the warning label on the same-sex parenting
experiment reads: “It will be interesting to see…” It is never wise
or compassionate to intentionally subject children to social
experimentation.
And what drives this experiment? Not the needs of children, but
rather the desires of adults. Lesbian mother, Rosie O’Donnell,
told Diane Sawyer in a Primetime interview that her son asks
why he can’t have a father. When asked what she tells little
Parker, Rosie responded, “…because I’m the kind of mommy
who wants another mommy.” Parker doesn’t get a daddy
because Rosie has certain emotional and sexual desires. And
the growth of gay and lesbian families will intentionally deny
thousands of children their mothers and fathers.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
85 | Statewide Measures

While compassionate societies always come to the aid of
motherless and fatherless families, wise societies should never
intentionally create them. But that is what the same-sex family
does. Marriage should remain between men and women
because children need mothers and fathers.
Glenn T. Stanton is the author of Why Marriage Matters:
Reasons to Believe in Marriage in Postmodern Society.
Sources:
D. Merilee Clunis and G. Dorsey Green, The Lesbian Parenting
Book: A Guide to Creating Families and Raising Kids, 2nd ed.
(New York: Seal Press, 2003), p. 243.
ABC News: Primetime (March 14, 2002)

(This information furnished by Glenn T. Stanton, Director, Social Research
& Cultural Affairs, Focus on the Family.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

A Legal Perspective and the Need for Measure 36

We are Oregon attorneys involved in defending the definition of
marriage as “one man, one woman”, which has remained sub-
stantially unchanged since territorial times. We urge a “yes” vote
on Measure 36 so Oregon’s Supreme Court cannot alter the
definition of marriage.

Limiting marriage to one man and one woman is not a
discriminatory practice that violates either the Oregon or U.S.
Constitutions. The United States Supreme Court determined in
Baker v. Nelson there is no federal constitutional right to same
sex marriage. In the states where courts have decided their state
constitutions require same sex marriage (Hawaii, Alaska), voters
later rejected that conclusion by amending the constitution. The
only exception to date is Massachusetts, and they may do the
same soon after its legislature next meets.
The Supreme Court may or may not agree with our argument a
proper interpretation of the history and purposes of Oregon’s
Privileges and Immunities Clause requires it to uphold Oregon’s
marriage statutes as they now exist. Measure 36 allows the
people rather than the Supreme Court to decide.

If the Supreme Court concludes the Oregon Constitution
requires two individuals of the same sex be able to marry simply
because they want to, it is difficult to argue larger groups of indi-
viduals of any sex (polygamy or “polyamory”) should not also be
able to join in group marriage. When accommodating personal
sexual preferences is the touchstone for constitutional analysis,
all consensual relationships among adults become entitled to the
same dignity. Litigation is now underway in Utah to overturn that
state’s ban on polygamy, and the Utah plaintiffs use the same
arguments now being used in Oregon to attempt judicial rewrit-
ing of our marriage statutes. We disagree with an agenda
already on record as favoring state approval of all private con-
sensual sexual activity as equally dignified and appropriate.
We urge you to vote “yes” on Measure 36.

Herbert Grey
Kelly Ford

(This information furnished by Herbert Grey, Kelly Ford.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments
Argument in Favor

Frank Damazio
Pastor, City Bible Church

James Martin
Pastor, Mt. Olivet Baptist Church

DEFENDING TRADITIONAL MARRIAGE

ON BEHALF OF THE CHILDREN

I want to speak as a father in defense of traditional marriage.
As a father, I have helped raise three healthy, happy children
and it did not come about by accident. It happened as a result

of hard work on the part of their mother and me. Anyone

who insinuates that healthy children don’t need both a mother

and a father have little understanding of what is required to

develop healthy families. I know the immeasurable importance
of their mother in the lives of my three kids. I now understand

from experience the importance a father can make

in the lives of his children.

A father-child relationship more than any other, defines a child’s
entire life. It affects their dating and marriage relationships,
their identity, their sexuality, their work performance, how they
express emotion, and how they become independent. A
child’s relationship with dad shapes their view of God, their
significant life decisions, and ultimately who they turn out to be
as individuals.
Marriage between a man and a woman was an institution
designed with a purpose in mind. That purpose was to create an
environment to enhance the development of healthy children.

Numerous studies have concluded that kids do best when they
are raised by loving and committed mothers and fathers. They
are less likely to be on illegal drugs, less likely to be held back in
a grade, less likely to drop out of school, less likely to commit
suicide, less likely to be in poverty, less likely to become juvenile
delinquents, and for the girls, less likely to become teen mothers.
They are healthier both emotionally and physically, even thirty
years latter, than those not so blessed with traditional parents.

Please vote Yes on Measure 36.
Kent L. Walton, Chief Petitioner, Measure 36

(This information furnished by Kent L. Walton, Chief Petitioner, Measure
36.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Portland Area Pastor’s Urging Oregonians to Vote YES on 36
As pastors, we rarely speak out on political issues. But this elec-
tion is different because Oregonians will decide one of the most
important decisions ever placed on a ballot. It is Measure 36, the
Defense of Marriage Amendment. And the outcome of Measure
36 will affect marriage and family for years to come.

We, as pastors -- who collectively minister to tens of thousands
of people of virtually every color, nationality, age and gender --
are doing everything within our power to keep marriage defined
as being between one man and one woman.

We love, support, and help care for almost every family arrange-
ment conceivable, but marriage is a relationship like none other.
Marriage is the way God designed nature to bring children into
the world. And marriage provides the ideal environment to raise
a child where each of the unique qualities of a man and a
woman blend together for the balanced development of their
offspring.
It doesn’t mean married people are any more special than
non-married people; it’s the relationship of marriage itself that’s
special. This is why we strongly encourage every person to vote
YES on Measure 36. It’s simple; it’s right; it’s the way marriage
should be defined – one man and one woman.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
86 | Statewide Measures

Dale Ebel

Raymond Cotton
Pastor, New Hope Community Pastor, Rolling Hills Community
Church
T. Allen Bethel
Pastor, Maranatha Church
David Stevens
Pastor, Central Bible Church

Church
Carl Palmer
Pastor, Cedar Mill Bible Church
Kelly Boggs
Pastor, Valley Baptist Church,
McMinnville

Stu Weber
Pastor, Good Shepherd
Community Church

Randall Sanford
Pastor, Sunnyside Foursquare
Church

(This information furnished by Frank Damazio, Pastor, City Bible Church.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Traditional Marriage Is Not a Civil Rights Violation

Defining marriage as between one female and one male does
not violate anyone’s civil rights. The civil rights battle African
Americans faced was about basic human rights; the right to be
treated as a full human being, the right to an education, to vote,
to live where one chose and not to be limited due to the color of
one’s skin.

These true human rights violations however, cannot be com-
pared to the issues posed by the same sex marriage community.
The right to marry whomever one chooses is not fully given to
any person. For example, no one can marry their sister, brother,
mother or father. A parent cannot marry his or her children. And
it’s not considered discrimination to forbid marrying a child or
having two spouses. These limitations apply to all people equally
and make good moral and common sense.

Certainly, the dignity of human rights must be afforded every
human being, but we cannot invent civil rights were there are
none. Regarding key civil rights indicators, like access to
education, employment and housing, gay Americans score
above the national averages. And gay and lesbian citizens are
not prohibited by law from having a relationship. It just isn’t
marriage.
I have been questioned about past laws that prevented mem-
bers of an African-American community to marry into the white
community. While it definitely was discriminatory, the issue
concerned “ethnicity” and not same-sex marriages. The two are
as different as oranges are to apples.

The same-sex marriage community wishes to appeal to voters
who rightly say, “what happened to African-Americans should
not happen to anyone else.” With this I agree. However, I and
the majority of African-Americans, do agree that keeping mar-
riage between one man and one woman is not discrimination.
Rev. T. Allen Bethel
President, Albina Ministerial Association

(This information furnished by Rev. T. Allen Bethel, President, Albina
Ministerial Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments
Argument in Favor

Bend Area Church Support Measure 36

The Bend Ministerial Association representing a majority of
churches in Bend urges voters to vote “Yes” on measure 36.
Both church and state have a common interest in affirming
marriage to be the union of one man and one woman.
First and foremost, the church recognizes the authority of our
creator, God, to govern His creation and to require certain
behaviors and to prohibit certain behaviors. In the very act of
creation, God created two very similar by different human
beings: man and woman. Man and woman are the very founda-
tion of the family; incomplete in themselves, but together
achieving the ability to create and nurture a family.

Jesus Christ affirmed marriage between a man and a woman
when he asked: “Have you not read, that He who created them
from the beginning made them male and female, and said,
‘Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold
fast to his wife; and they shall become one flesh’?” (Matthew
19:4-5 ESV)

As ministers of the Word of God we are required by our Lord to
teach and affirm that sex is a wonderful gift from God to be
enjoyed by husband and wife within the sacred bond of mar-
riage. We are also required by our Lord to teach that all sexual
relations outside of marriage between one man and one woman
are morally wrong and sinful. As pastors, we speak daily of
God’s love, compassion, and healing power to individuals and
families who suffer the consequences of sexual sin: broken
marriages and families, sexual addictions, poverty-stricken
single mothers and sexually transmitted diseases, all of which
increases the burden of civil government and public and private
social agencies.

For these reasons, both the church an civil government have an
interest in affirming marriage as the union of one man and one
woman.
Dave Miller, President

Terry Cowan, Secretary

(This information furnished by Dave Miller, President, Terry Cowan,
Secretary; Bend Ministerial Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

United Methodist Statement in Support of Measure 36

The understanding of the 10-Million Member United
Methodist Church is that Marriage is a God-defined
Covenant between one man and one woman.

“We affirm the sanctity of the marriage covenant that is
expressed in love, mutual support, personal commitment, and
shared fidelity between a man and a woman. We believe that
God’s blessing rests upon such marriage, whether or not
there are children of the union. We reject social norms that
assume different standard for women than for men in
marriage.”

Paragraph 161.C (Social Principles, 2000 Book of
Discipline)

Our Christian community administers/supports this exclusive
Covenant only according to the definition given by the Biblical
God. Our stewardship of the Marriage Covenant within the
United Methodist Church is based upon Scripture’s teaching
concerning the origins of Marriage found in the Creation

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
87 | Statewide Measures

Narrative of Genesis, the Old Testament Prophetic Revelation
(which uses Marriage as a picture of Covenant faithfulness with
God) and the Teaching of Jesus in the Gospels of Matthew and
Mark that Marriage is exclusively between one man and one
woman.
This understanding presents a living witness to the larger society
of what faithful living is. We are not given the authority to
redefine the nature of this Covenant, doing so would be an
encouragement to engage in sinful behavior, a liberty that
Scripture never condones.

United Methodist Christians have historically rejected the
practice of homosexual behavior while seeking to uphold the
God-given worth/dignity of all persons. The 2004 General
Conference continued a two-decade affirmation of this under-
standing as United Methodist Church policy. The delegates also
affirmed by a wide margin that same-sex marriage is not recog-
nized or to be practiced in our denomination.
We urge you to join with us in supporting Oregon Measure 36.

Sincerely,
Rev. Rand D. Sargent
Marquam, OR

Bob Youngman
Newberg, OR

(This information furnished by Rand D. Sargent, Robert M. Youngman.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

The Value of Preserving Marriage

Relationships involve personal decisions. But the institution of
marriage is a public agreement, a foundation for how families
relate to their communities in Oregon. Marriage brings order to
social life within the diversity of our many private customs and
practices.
Marriage contributes immeasurably to the human and economic
health of society. Marriage helps nurture children into responsi-
ble citizens.

So the people of Oregon are right to be concerned about estab-
lishing fair rules determining who can marry. Our state sets a
minimum age for marriage. It licenses certain people to perform
wedding ceremonies, bans polygamy and the marriage of near
relatives. The state promotes healthy and stable marriages that
benefit everyone.

This public aspect of marriage reflects the shared values of the
people of our state. While individuals are free to form house-
holds and domestic partnerships as they wish, marriage is the
basic institution that the state registers and regulates. This
amendment would not restrict people in their private relationship
choices. Rather it would give clear support for the basic institu-
tion that has contributed to happiness and prosperity throughout
the ages.

Until recently Oregonians routinely agreed that marriage is
defined as a life-long commitment of one man and one woman.
Recent challenges to this definition introduced a knot of confu-
sion into our courts and into our lives.

An amendment to the state constitution is necessary to preserve
the meaning of marriage. Passing Measure 36 would support the
orderly regulation of marriage and protect the people of Oregon
from the confusion of a radical redefinition of marriage. It would
give clear direction to government officials as they determine
public policy for marriage.

Marriage between one man and one woman has been the
foundation of strong and healthy communities for thousands of 

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

years. Vote “Yes” on Measure 36 to preserve a stable under-
standing of marriage for the well-being of all.

Rev. Richard P. Zimmerman
Rev. Bruce Sexton
Rev. Gilbert Gleason

(This information furnished by Rev. Richard P. Zimmerman.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

LET’S VOTE!

The recent OCA signature drive for the “Divine Sovereignty Life
Amendment,” if successful, would have given Oregonians the
extraordinary opportunity to vote on the existence of God, yes
or no. Religious dogma would have been decided democratically
by popular vote--essentially creating an official state religion
with GOD ALMIGHTY enshrined in the Constitution as

Oregon State Deity!

Although this initiative drive failed, the “Christian” Coalition has
now created a Commandment Amendment to the Constitution!
Measure 36 ordains us to 

VOTE ON THE THEOLOGICAL BELIEF

of whether churches, synagogues, and temples “shalt not”
be permitted to marry gays and lesbians.
And this election thus establishes the glorious precedent for
democratic electioneering on ALL of the

Official Oregon State Dogma!

COMING SOON

TO A THEOLOGY BALLOT NEAR YOU:

• Shall churches, synagogues, and temples be permitted to
marry divorced persons (Luke 16:18)? Let’s vote!
• Shall baptism be by sprinkling, pouring, or dipping? Let’s
vote!
• Shall the Lord’s Prayer be translated “forgive us our debts” or
“forgive us our trespasses”? Let’s vote!
• Shall adulterers be stoned to death (Leviticus 20:10)? Let’s
vote!
• Shall obnoxious religious-right hypocrites be allowed to
marry? Hell no! Let’s vote!
• How many angels can dance on the head of a pin? Hey, let’s
just vote!
This is democracy! Religious beliefs belong on the ballot, and
winning beliefs become public policy in the Constitutional
Catechism! Minority adherents, straight and gay, should have
the statesmanship to accept that religious freedom does not
protect losing beliefs in a theological election.
Your special right to practice your moral beliefs (including
marriage) is subject to the whims of popular vote!

It’s not discrimination, it’s electoral theology.
In Oregon, democratic dogma is inspired by initiative and
referendum--in the

Holy Marriage

of the

One Official Oregon Church and State!

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Same-sex marriage proponents argue this initiative amend-

ment violates the civil rights of gays. For clarity, examine issues
from a civil perspective.

Common ground

The right to marry exists.
A civil marriage union is a contract.

Problems

By its very nature, legal advocacy limits issues. Equal protec-
tion has provided an especially beneficial strategy for same-sex
marriage proponents.

It has focused on the right rather than on the source of the
right, marriage, the contract. It has forced opponents to
counter within this legal delimiter. It has resulted in a highly
divisive debate on an erroneous foundation of equal
protection versus marriage.

The issue proves more complex, like the story of the 5 blind

men describing the elephant. One blind man describes elephant
by the tail, another by the foot, and so forth.

First, rights emanate from the institution from which they are
derived. The institution (marriage/government/etc.) establishes
the rights. Rights do not establish nor do they create the nature
of the institution.

Therefore, we must understand the institution/source. We

must consider contract law because that is the nature of
marriage. The 4 elements are 1) mutual assent 2) consideration,
promise for a promise,…the right to consensual reproductive
sex 3) legality subject matter…not prostitution, bigamy 4) legal
subject…of age? not incest, etc..

Second, legal confusion also occurs because equal protection
focuses on individuals/equality whereas contract law focuses on
two or more parties/exclusion…specifics of the contract.

Third, contractual elements direct us to the nature of marriage

which is based upon the nature of man (m & f), the union of a
man and a woman. For the nature of man, consider statistics
(the norm, the bell-shaped curve), the natural law, and
Aristotelian philosophy.

Solution
Vote for this initiative amendment.
You say it isn’t your business? It doesn’t matter?
It does. Why? Because truth is the scale upon which justice is

based. Truth must prevail.

(This information furnished by Ann Lackey.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

State beaches, the bottle bill, land-use planning, and now

VOTE FOR OREGON:

THE OREGON DOGMA!

www.oregondogma.org

(This information furnished by M. Dennis Moore, God for Oregon
Deity–PAC (GOD-PAC) and Family Alliance of God.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
88 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

• Block inheritance protections– even leading to people

losing their family home.

Marriage saved my spouse’s life

Two months after my husband David and I wed this Spring,
David suffered a devastating stroke.
When I was notified at my office of David’s condition, I rushed to
be with him, not stopping to contact my lawyer for a copy of our
power of attorney. When I arrived at the hospital, I was told that
his particular condition required a quick decision from next of
kin in order to approve a course of treatment that had to be
administered within three hours of the stroke.
Medical personnel needed a family member to authorize his
medical treatment. Waiting for his mother, who lives two hours
away, to reach the hospital would have wasted valuable time.
When the doctor asked who could sign the forms, for the first
time, I was able to say “I am his husband.” Those four words
allowed me to sign the necessary paperwork, authorize medical
treatment and stay by David’s side.

With that move, according to my doctor, I may have become the
first person in Oregon to sign a consent form for a same-sex
spouse. David is now well on his way to a full recovery because
I was able to authorize treatment so quickly.

David and I are both private people who have never played such
a public role in a campaign. But knowing that our marriage
saved David’s life motivated us to step forward and speak out
against Constitutional Amendment 36.

If this amendment passes, countless Oregonians will be denied
the right to make life-saving medical decisions for their loved
ones. That’s not healthy for families and it’s not right for Oregon.
Reasonable people may disagree about social issues such as
marriage, but amending unequal treatment into our constitution
– and hurting families – goes too far.

We urge you to Vote NO on Constitutional Amendment 36

Chris B. and David B., Portland

(This information furnished by Rebecca Lee, No on Constitutional
Amendment 36.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

VOTE NO ON CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 36

Putting Unequal Treatment In Our Constitution

Will Hurt Thousands Of Oregonians.

Our Constitution is for protecting our most basic and important
rights. It should never be used to settle partisan, religious or
ideological disputes. And it should never be changed in a way
that will hurt many of our fellow Oregonians.
Constitutional Amendment 36 may seem that it simply defines
marriage. But its impact goes far beyond gay marriage.
Constitutional Amendment 36 will hurt thousands of our fellow
Oregonians: gays and lesbians, certainly. It will also hurt their
families, their children and our communities.

Constitutional Amendment 36 will

• Put unequal treatment for gay and lesbian families into our

Constitution.

• Deny many Oregon families and children access to health

care and insurance coverage. That hurts them, and is costly
for all of us.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
89 | Statewide Measures

• Prevent the ability to make life-saving medical decisions in

emergency situations.

These aren’t theoretical problems. They are real problems. They
hurt real people. Constitutional Amendment 36 would put those
hurts in our Constitution – permanently.

Please read the next several pages of this Voters’ Pamphlet

to see many specific facts and examples.
We Can Disagree About Gay Marriage
Without Putting It In the Constitution

We can disagree about gay marriage. Many people do. But we
should never use the constitution to settle this kind of disagree-
ment. Putting unequal treatment in our Constitution – and
hurting people – goes too far.
Marriage is about so much more than who gets married: It’s
about love and commitment. Respect and responsibility.
Benefits and protections. All people share these needs and
emotions, including gays and lesbians. It is just wrong to use our
Constitution as a weapon against them.

Vote NO on Constitutional Amendment 36

Because our Constitution is designed to protect people.

Not hurt them.

(This information furnished by Rebecca Lee, No on Constitutional
Amendment 36.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon Parents urge you to vote no on

constitutional amendment 36

We are each the parents of two adult children – one who is
straight and one who is gay or lesbian.
Like all parents, we have dreamed that one day each of our chil-
dren would know the joy of marriage. Like all parents, we have
dreamed that one day each of our children would know the joy
of parenthood.
Like all parents, we have worried about the challenges their lives
would bring.
Unlike many parents, though, we have also worried that one of
our children would be singled out for unequal treatment and that
one of our children would have opportunities and rights from
which our other child would be excluded.
Each of our children should be allowed to protect their loved
ones in times of medical emergency, each of our children
should be able to provide health insurance coverage for their
spouse and their children, each of our children should know
that if their spouse dies, they will not lose their nest egg or the
family home.
But if this Constitutional Amendment passes, those things
may be forever denied to our gay and lesbian children.
If this amendment passes, it will deny many Oregon families and
children - like ours - health care, inheritance rights and the ability
to make life-saving medical decisions.

We don’t think this is fair. We don’t believe unequal treatment
belongs in our Constitution. We urge you, on behalf of all of our
children, to please vote no on Constitutional Amendment 36.
Jim & Elise Self, Eugene
On behalf of their children

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

Linda & Brian Stahl, The Dalles
On behalf of their children

Russell & Eleanor Cannon, Bend
On behalf of their children

(This information furnished by Brian R. Stahl.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

AFSC on Equal Civil Marriage Rights
The American Friends Service Committee (AFSC) supports equal
civil marriage rights for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender
people equal to those for heterosexuals. We are aware that
many are calling for civil unions for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and
transgender people and some people wish to reserve civil mar-
riage for heterosexual couples alone. It is our belief that
government sanction should be applied equally. All couples
should be granted civil union licenses or all should be granted
marriage licenses.

In doing so, we are careful to distinguish between civil law, in
which no single religious view should predominate, and the right
of various faith traditions, denominations, and congregations to
decide for themselves whether they will perform, support, or rec-
ognize the marriages of people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual,
and transgender. Similarly, we wish to distinguish between the
necessity for equality in the matter of civil law and coercive gov-
ernmental “marriage promotion” policies that seek to enforce
only one standard of worthiness for people who receive govern-
ment assistance. We uphold equality in civil law and the
principle of free choice in the matter of marriage while rejecting
the idea that the worthiness of persons and families is deter-
mined by marital status.
Vote NO on constitutional amendment 36!

(This information furnished by Dan Stutesman, American Friends Service
Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The YWCA of Greater Portland strives to eliminate

racism and discrimination in all its forms and provides

growth, education and leadership opportunities

for women and families.

The YWCA works towards diversity and non-discrimination.
Measure 36 will put unequal treatment based on sexual orien-
tation into the Oregon constitution. The Oregon Bill of Rights
provides: “No law shall be passed granting to any citizen or
class of citizens privileges or immunities which, upon the same
terms, shall not equally belong to all citizens.” We can disagree
about social issues, but disagreements should not be resolved in
the constitution. Amending the constitution transforms one
group’s current views into a principle that binds us indefinitely.
The constitution should give equal protection under the law.

Measure 36 specifies different rights for Oregonians, forever.
Victims of this amendment would be children and families. Many
families would be denied health care, inheritance rights and the
ability to make decisions about their life. The amendment could
restrict adoption policies, and could put children in jeopardy if a
parent were to die.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
90 | Statewide Measures

In 1946 Esther E. Skelton, president of the Portland YWCA
Board of Directors wrote to the membership with a resolution
“…in harmony with the policy of the YWCA and steps that we
have taken against discrimination.” She was addressing the
posting of the discriminatory signs “we cater to white trade
only.” She asked every member to “combat this vicious practice,
and help implement our fundamental belief in the democratic
way of life and in the worth and dignity of human personality.”
Removing the signs did not eradicate racism. It did make it
possible to advance the social discourse about racism and
grant basic rights to those who previously were denied them.
Voting against Ballot Measure 36 is a step we can take in

2004 to continue to fight discrimination.
Board of Directors of the YWCA of Greater Portland, 1111 SW
10th Avenue, Portland, OR 97205

(This information furnished by Adella Macdonald, Executive Director,
Board of Directors, YWCA of Greater Portland.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Dear Oregon Voter,

My name is Pete Sorenson, an elected Lane County
Commissioner. My life and work are rooted in Oregon. I grew up
in Coos County, graduated from the University of Oregon, ran a
private law firm, raised two children, and served as an elected
member of the Oregon State Senate. I’ve been a licensed
Oregon attorney for 22 years. As a former member on the
Senate Judiciary Committee, the committee that considers the
impact of voter approved Constitutional amendments that I want
to share my perspective with you.
I firmly oppose Constitutional amendment 36. Oregon’s
Constitution should not be amended to deny rights that
citizens currently enjoy under that very document.

Although this measure does not affect me personally, it affects
many people that I know. I believe that Marriage is both a reli-
gious and civil act. Our religious beliefs should be private. We
must keep the legal aspects separate from the religious aspects.
Oregon’s constitution is a legal document designed to expand
and protect the rights of Oregonians. The Constitution was not
written to deny specific rights and freedoms that are enjoyed by
the rest of Oregonians.

This measure will deny REAL OREGONIANS some of the most
basic rights that we take for granted. Some of the basic rights
include denying partners the right to make hospital visits and
medical decisions, blocking inheritance rights, and denying
people social security benefits after the death of loved ones.
I truly believe that women and men are created equal.

Oregon’s constitution should not be amended to deny
Oregonians basic rights. Please join me in voting NO on
Constitutional amendment 36.
Thank you,

Pete Sorenson
P.S. - If you have any questions about the seriousness of this
measure and why I oppose it, please contact me at
PO Box 10836, Eugene, Oregon 97440 or by calling me at
(541) 485-6726 or by sending me an email at
sorenson2004@juno.com.

(This information furnished by Peter Sorenson.)

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

But also vote NO to send a message:

STOP WASTING OUR TIME

AND GET TO WORK ON OUR REAL PROBLEMS!

Argument in Opposition

Unsure how to vote on Constitutional Amendment 36?

Ask yourself:
Do you want unequal treatment for gays and lesbians in our
Constitution?
Do you want to take away health care coverage from Oregon
families and children?
Do you want to prevent people from making critical life-saving
medical decisions for their loved ones?
Do you want to prevent thousands of Oregonians from fair
inheritance rights when their loved one dies, even if it meant
they could lose their family home?
Do you want to change our Oregon Constitution in a way that
hurts real people in very real ways?

If your answer to any of these questions is “no” then your
answer to Constitutional Amendment 36 MUST be “NO”

(This information furnished by Ellen Lowe, No on Constitutional
Amendment 36.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

HERE’S ANOTHER REASON TO VOTE NO ON 36

One Guy’s View:

There are a lot of clear reasons to vote against changing the
Oregon Constitution to exclude gay and lesbians from civil
marriage.

• First of all, there is no way around the fact that it is unequal

treatment – and you don’t put that in a Constitution.

• And however one might feel about same-sex marriage, it

isn’t a threat to anyone. When it comes to tradition, live and
let live is a good strong Oregon value.

I’m a 19-year old single straight guy. Two people of the same
gender getting married certainly doesn’t hurt me, now or if and
when I get married.
What gets me is that we have to vote on this at all.

When I look at my life and my future, here’s what I’m worried
about:

• Whether I will be able to get a good job.
• Whether I will be able to afford a home.
• Whether my kids (if I chose to have any) will be able to go

to a decent school.

• If I am going to be able to afford health insurance.

And I’m not even going to start on what’s going on overseas.
And that brings me to the other reason to vote no on
Constitutional Amendment 36.

There are a lot of politicians who are psyched to see this on the
ballot because it is a big, fat distraction. They would much pre-
fer voters be thinking about gay marriage than about what a
lousy job they are doing on the stuff that actually has an impact
on our lives.

Vote NO because unequal treatment is wrong.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
91 | Statewide Measures

(This information furnished by Ernie Pearmine, Gervais.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The Community of Welcoming Congregations strongly opposes
Constitutional Amendment 36. We are an interfaith association of
over 50 communities of faith who each have purposefully and
theologically made commitments to welcoming all. We support
the gay and lesbian families in our midst and recognize that
changing the Constitution in this manner would have a negative
impact on their lives.
While the criteria for marriage is a civil matter, we believe that
equitable treatment of all people is a matter of faith. As people
of faith, we believe that God has created all of us in the divine
image. We hereby assert that equality in marriage is a justice
issue and strongly encourage equity that crosses all barriers.

The Constitution provides protections and individual freedoms
and should not be used to formally sanction different treatment
for gay and lesbian families. As clergy leaders and communities
of faith, we support civil marriage equality and encourage
religious communities to celebrate the marriages of gay and
lesbian couples and their families. The proposed Constitutional
Amendment would harm gay and lesbian families by denying
health benefits and other financial protections that keep families
safe.
While we come from different theological perspectives regarding
marriage, we agree that passing this Amendment would create
unequal treatment for gay and lesbian families. Therefore, we
oppose amending the Constitution in this way. We urge
Oregonians to vote NO on Constitutional Amendment 36.

(This information furnished by The Rev. Tara L. Wilkins, Director, The
Community of Welcoming Congregations.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Constitutional Amendment 36: Not as simple as it seems.
Putting unequal treatment in our Constitution to ban gay mar-
riage impacts more than you might think. Here are 100 of the
rights, responsibilities and protections that would be denied to
Oregon families.
Which would you want to be denied?

1. No automatic right to make health care decisions for

partner

2. No automatic right to visit partner in the hospital
3. No right to sue for wrongful death if partner negligently

killed

4. No right to consent or refuse consent to an autopsy of

partner’s body

5. No vested right to be buried in cemetery plot with partner

6. No automatic right to inherit cemetery plot
7. No automatic right to make arrangements for funeral or

dispose of deceased partner’s body

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

8. No right to donate partner’s body or organs after death
9. No automatic right to inherit deceased partner’s estate

32 No automatic paternity for children
33 Must testify against partner in a court case

10. Required to comply with childcare facility regulations when

caring only for partner’s children

34 Must surrender home to satisfy lien for partner’s unpaid

medical treatment in long-term care facility

11. Required to comply with childcare facility regulations when

caring only for partner’s children

12. A prior will is not automatically revoked when the relation-

ship ends

13. No right to be notified in a public notice before partner’s

will is destroyed by an attorney

14. No preference to be appointed personal representative of

deceased partner’s estate

15. No right to continue to live in the deceased partner’s home

for one year after partner’s death

16. No automatic right to notice in matters involving deceased

partner’s estate

17. No right to support from deceased partner’s estate
18. No right to demand one-quarter share of partner’s estate if

will leaves less than that

19. No automatic right to notice that a conservatorship or

guardianship is being filed against partner unless currently
living together

20. May not get highest preference by court to be appointed

as guardian or conservator for incapacitated partner

Vote No on Constitutional Amendment 36.

(This information furnished by Ellen Lowe, No on Constitutional
Amendment 36.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Constitutional Amendment 36: Not as simple as it seems.
Putting unequal treatment in our Constitution to ban gay mar-
riage impacts more than you might think. Here are 100 of the
rights, responsibilities and protections that would be denied to
Oregon families.

Which would you want to be denied?

21 No right to obtain life insurance on partner

22 No uninsured motorist insurance coverage for partner
23 No right to spousal cash surrender valuation of term life

insurance on partner

24 No right to coverage under deceased partner’s group

health insurance plan.

25 No protection for partner’s home in bankruptcy

26 Private conversations with partner are not protected in

court

27 Conversations with a marriage counselor are not protected

in court

28 No automatic education on fetal alcohol syndrome
29 No court-ordered counseling upon divorce

30 No right to crisis counseling through state crime victims’
compensation fund if partner is a victim of international
terrorism

31 Partner not responsible for family expenses

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
92 | Statewide Measures

35 No right to sue long-term care facility that fails to dis-

charge lien in a timely manner once overdue charges for
partner are paid

36 No right to sell property qualified for farm use assessment

to partner without disqualification

37 No right to avoid court appointment of a property manager

during foreclosure of partner’s home

38 No right to maintain a dwelling on EFU (exclusive farm

use) property even if occupied by farm operator’s partner

39 No right to maintain a dwelling in a farm or forest zone

even if lawfully created or acquired by the owner’s partner

40 No right as a partner to a landowner to obtain a

“landowner preference tag” for hunting from the Fish &
Wildlife Commission

Vote No on Constitutional Amendment 36

(This information furnished by Ellen Lowe, No on Constitutional
Amendment 36.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Constitutional Amendment 36: Not as simple as it seems.
Putting unequal treatment in our Constitution to ban gay mar-
riage impacts more than you might think. Here are 100 of the
rights, responsibilities and protections that would be denied to
Oregon families.

Which would you want to be denied?

41 No right to private visits in long-term care facility

42 No right to receive personal effects from deceased

partner’s body

43 No access to partner’s death record
44 No automatic right of survivorship for jointly owned real

property

45 No right to loss of support payments from the state crime

victims’ compensation fund if partner killed in a crime

46 No right to family therapy from state crime victims’ com-

pensation fund in case of child sexual abuse

47 No right to crisis counseling through state crime victims’
compensation fund if partner is a victim of international
terrorism

48 No right to exclude capital gain on principal residence

based on partner’s ownership

49 No court-ordered life insurance upon divorce
50 No right to deduct partner’s medical expenses on income

tax return

51 No right to receive deceased partner’s wages

52 No right to deceased partner’s wage claim against non-

paying employer

53 No right to work on partner’s farm for less than minimum

wage

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

54 No eligibility for scholarship if partner is disabled or killed

on the job

55 No right to sue for partner’s death that was a result of an

unsafe workplace

56 No right to workers’ compensation benefits if partner dis-

abled or killed on the job

57 No right to opt out of workers’ compensation insurance as

a family business

58 No right to sue non-employer for negligently killing partner

on the job

59 No right to continue workers’ compensation benefits until

remarriage if partner is killed or disabled on the job

60 No right to examine or get copy of autopsy report of

deceased partner

Vote No on Constitutional Amendment 36.

(This information furnished by Ellen Lowe, No on Constitutional
Amendment 36.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Constitutional Amendment 36: Not as simple as it seems.
Putting unequal treatment in our Constitution to ban gay mar-
riage impacts more than you might think. Here are 100 of the
rights, responsibilities and protections that would be denied to
Oregon families.

Which would you want to be denied?

61. No right to receive personal effects from deceased

partner’s body

62. No access to partner’s death record

63. No automatic right of survivorship for jointly owned real

property

64. No right to sell property qualified for farm use assessment

to partner without disqualification

65. No right to loss of support payments from the state crime

victims’ compensation fund if partner killed in a crime

66. No right to family therapy from state crime victims’ com-

pensation fund in case of child sexual abuse

67. Must pay taxes on employer health insurance benefits for

partner

68. No right to exclude capital gain on principal residence

based on partner’s ownership

69. Must pay taxes on employer health insurance benefits for

partner

70. No right to deduct partner’s medical expenses on income

tax return

71. No right to receive deceased partner’s wages
72. No right to deceased partner’s wage claim against non-

paying employer

73. No right to work on partner’s farm for less than minimum

wage

74. No eligibility for scholarship if partner is disabled or killed

on the job

75. No right to sue for partner’s death that was a result of an

unsafe workplace

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
93 | Statewide Measures

76. No right to workers’ compensation benefits if partner dis-

abled or killed on the job

77. No right to opt out of workers’ compensation insurance as

a family business

78. No right to sue non-employer for negligently killing partner

on the job

79. No right to continue workers’ compensation benefits until

remarriage if partner is killed or disabled on the job

80. A prior will is not automatically revoked when entering a

new relationship

Vote No on Constitutional Amendment 36

(This information furnished by Ellen Lowe, No on Constitutional
Amendment 36.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Constitutional Amendment 36: Not as simple as it seems.
Putting unequal treatment in our Constitution to ban gay mar-
riage impacts more than you might think. Here are 100 of the
rights, responsibilities and protections that would be denied to
Oregon families.

Which would you want to be denied?

81. No automatic right to special retirement benefit after death

of partner who was a police officer or a firefighter

82. No right as unmarried couple with children to be treated
as married for workers’ compensation rights and benefits
83. No automatic right to partner’s group insurance provided

by public retirement system.

84. No right to opt out of unemployment insurance as a family

business

85. No right to receive deceased partner’s unemployment

benefits

86. Required to comply with farm labor contractor regulations

when working only with partner

87. Subjected to employment discrimination laws when hiring

partner in family business

88. Employer can refuse to hire or discharge employee

because it employs or has employed partner

89. No protection through emergency court orders in case of

divorce

90. No tax exemption for dividing property upon divorce

91. No dividing retirement plans upon divorce
92. No automatic right to receive partner’s judicial retirement

pension

93. No automatic right to make retirement selection from

deceased partner’s public employee retirement benefit
94. No automatic right to partner’s pre-Medicare insurance

benefit provided by public retirement system

95. No automatic right to partner’s Medicare supplemental

insurance paid for by public retirement system

96. No automatic right to approve partner’s public employee

retirement choices

97. No automatic right to special pre-retirement public

employee retirement benefit after death of partner who
was a judge

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

98. No right for partner of disabled or killed public safety

officer to Public Safety Memorial Fund benefits

99. No automatic right to receive partner’s public employment

benefits

100. No right to retired partner’s health insurance offered by

local government employers

Vote No on Constitutional Amendment 36

(This information furnished by Ellen Lowe, No on Constitutional
Amendment 36.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Planned Parenthood Advocates of Oregon

Oppose Constitutional Amendment 36:

PLANNED PARENTHOOD SETS THE RECORD STRAIGHT

For more than 40 years, Planned Parenthood has been a
name you can trust in Oregon to provide you with medically-
accurate information, education and counseling. We oppose
Constitutional Amendment 36 and here’s why:
MYTH:

FACT:

REALITY:

MYTH:

FACT:

Those behind this measure are making false
claims, such as, “Sex-education classes will be
forced to teach homosexuality as a legitimate
option.” They claim that this will lead to more people
being gay and therefore more people dying early
from AIDS.
Constitutional Amendment 36 has nothing to do
with Oregon’s sex education law. ORS 336.455
requires “Promote abstinence for school age youth
and mutually monogamous relationships with an
uninfected partner for adults as the safest and most
responsible sexual behavior. However, abstinence
shall not be taught to the exclusion of other material
and instruction on contraceptive and disease reduc-
tion measures.”

Planned Parenthood knows that Constitutional

Amendment 36 is has nothing whatsoever to do
with Oregon’s sex ed classes.
Supporters of Constitutional Amendment 36 are
making false claims, such as, “Public Schools will
be forced to teach that ‘gay’ marriage is equal to
traditional marriage… beginning in kindergarten…”.
Constitutional Amendment 36 has no require-
ments related to family life education. Using
phrases like “beginning in kindergarten” is the worst
kind of fear-based tactic designed to scare and mis-
lead parents. In reality, Oregon law requires basic
information we all agree on, such as, “Teach that no
form of sexual expression is acceptable when it
physically or emotionally harms oneself or others
and teach pupils not to make unwanted physical
and verbal sexual advances…”

REALITY:

Planned Parenthood knows that Constitutional
Amendment 36 is completely unnecessary when
it comes to getting good information to our kids.

PLANNED PARENTHOOD URGES YOU TO VOTE “NO” ON
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 36, IT’S UNNECESSARY.

Bill Sheppard
President/CEO
Planned Parenthood
Southwestern Oregon

Planned Parenthood of the
Columbia Willamette

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
94 | Statewide Measures

(This information furnished by Becca Uherbelau, Planned Parenthood
Columbia/Willamette, Planned Parenthood Southwestern Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The Central Pacific Conference of the United Church of Christ
opposes Constitutional Amendment 36. We affirm that mar-
riage’s purpose and focus need always be love, wholeness,
justice and equality. The right to marry is a matter of loving our
neighbors and seeking justice for them. As a civil rights issue,
marriage should be accessible to all Oregonians in committed,
loving relationships. All couples should have access to the 1,000
plus rights and responsibilities that come with marriage.
“What doth the Lord require of thee but to do justly, and to love
mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?” Micah 6:8
“Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart… Thou shalt
love thy neighbor as thyself.” Mark 12:30-31
The Central Pacific Conference of the United Church of Christ is
committed to a society where love and justice abound for all
people. The Oregon Constitution should not restrict civil rights
and allow unfair treatment of our citizens. The amendment
process should not be used to solve divisive issues of the
moment. Amendment 36 dignifies unfair treatment and under-
mines religious liberty.

Thoughtful people of faith can and do disagree on the issue of
marriage. We respect the right of each religious group to decide
whether or not to sanctify any marriage. Our state Constitution
should not endorse one religious definition of marriage over
another. Clergy have never been forced to perform any mar-
riages not recognized by their particular beliefs. Our Federal
Constitution expressly forbids this under the First Amendment’s
establishment clause and its guarantee of the right to the free
exercise of religion.
Respect the rights of all religions. Vote NO on Constitutional
Amendment 36.
The Central Pacific Conference is composed of 40 worship com-
munities in Oregon, with additional churches in Washington and
Idaho.

(This information furnished by Joyce Liljeholm, Central Pacific Conference
of the United Church of Christ.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

A Public School Teacher Urges a No Vote on

Constitutional Amendment 36

I’m very proud to have served as a public school teacher in
Oregon for twenty-two years – in Coos Bay, Albany and St.
Helens – and over the years, I’ve really seen a lot.
There are all kinds of reasons students succeed or fail at
learning in our public schools. One of the most telling signs of
whether students benefit from school and gain new and
improved life skills is how they are treated – by their peers, by
teachers, by parents and by school leaders. Students who are
treated well, and not differently than others, are more likely to
succeed. Students who are deficit, even in an area that’s not
their fault, have a much more difficult time, because they are
also treated differently by fellow students, educators and the
entire school community.

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

Constitution Amendment 36 would put unequal treatment for
kids and their families into our state Constitution. It would mean
some kids cannot receive health insurance coverage, just
because they have lesbian or gay parents. It will mean that some
children wouldn’t be able to visit one of their gay or lesbian par-
ents in the hospital. It means that some children’s legal custody
could be in question should something happen to one of their
gay or lesbian parents.

Oregonians should not be fooled. There are a lot of protections
that kids get from married parents that other kids cannot enjoy
simply because they may have lesbian or gay parents.
Please join me in opposing Constitution Amendment 36. We
shouldn’t handicap any Oregon child with something they carry
around each and every day, by allowing unequal treatment of
their parents.
Elaine Mariman, Columbia City, OR

(This information furnished by Elaine Mariman, Columbia City, OR.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

One thing Americans agree on is that what makes our nation
great is our religious freedom and religious diversity. Many of our
countries founders fled Europe because they were persecuted
for their religious practices. They founded a new nation with a
Bill of Rights that guarantees religious freedom and protects the
right of everyone to freely practice their religion (or not to prac-
tice at all).
Constitutional Amendment 36 seeks to take away that religious
freedom. Churches, synagogues, and other religious organiza-
tions have different opinions about same-sex marriage. Many
rabbis, ministers, priests, and their congregants, believe that
their religious traditions support and honor the sanctity of mar-
riage for all couples, including same-sex couples. We, the
Religious Response Network, are a group of clergy and people
of faith of many religions who share this conviction.
If Constitutional Amendment 36 passes, then the religious beliefs
of those who support it will be forced upon everyone. People of
faith who believe in the sanctity of same-sex marriage will have
their religious convictions pushed aside by the State. That kind
of government interference is un-American to the core.

Voltaire said, “I may not agree with what you say, but I will
defend to the death your right to say it.” The same principle at
the very core of our democracy is at stake here.
We urge all Oregon voters, no matter what their personal beliefs
on marriage, to be patriotic and support the genius of our nation
– religious freedom. We ask those of you who personally oppose
same-sex marriage to stand up for the rights of your neighbors
and vote no. The same principle that protects your right to prac-
tice your religion as you wish should protect the rights of your
neighbors who practice their religion differently. Please stand up
for your rights and those of your fellow Americans, and keep the
state from taking sides in a private, religious debate on marriage.
Vote NO on Constitutional Amendment 36.

(This information furnished by Rabbi Maurice Harris, Religious Response
Network.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

PFLAG Oregon State Council

(Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays)

Urges “NO” Vote on Constitutional Amendment 36!

PFLAG Oregon State Council represents hundreds of parents,
families and friends of lesbians and gays around the state. From
Ontario to Coos Bay and from Forest Grove to Klamath Falls, we
are your neighbors, your friends, and coworkers who love our
children, gay and straight. We strive to create a society that is
healthy and respectful of human diversity and inclusive of our
gay and lesbian children. Oregon’s constitution is sacred to the
protection of our families.
Constitutional Amendment 36 will HURT our families:

• It singles out our gay and lesbian children for unequal

treatment.

• It denies protections for health care, inheritance rights and

the ability to make life-saving medical decisions.

• It puts our children and their children at risk.
• It is unfair to our families.

All of our children should be allowed to protect their spouses
and children in times of medical emergency.
All of our children should be able to provide health care cover-
age for their spouses and children.

Don’t deny Oregon families and children - like ours – health care,
inheritance rights and the ability to make life-saving medical
decisions.

VOTE NO!!

• Vote against hurting our families
• Vote against putting our children at risk.

• Vote against unequal treatment in our Constitution.
Please Protect our Gay and Lesbian Children

and Their Families

PFLAG Oregon State Council

Asks You to Vote “NO” on

Constitutional Amendment 36

Patricia Keeney, President, PFLAG Oregon State Council
(Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays)
Elise Self, Co-Chair, PFLAG Eugene/Springfield Chapter
PFLAG Mid-Columbia Chapter
PFLAG Portland Chapter
Mark Hammer, Coordinator, PFLAG Clackamas County Chapter
PFLAG Grants Pass Chapter
Bill Hayden, PFLAG Salem Chapter
PFLAG (Parents, Family and Friends of Lesbians & Gays),

Corvallis/Albany Chapter

Dorothy Leman, Co-President, PFLAG Central Oregon Chapter
PFLAG South Coast Chapter
PFLAG Ashland/Rogue Valley Chapter
PFLAG Forest Grove Chapter

(This information furnished by Patricia Keeney, President, PFLAG Oregon
State Council (Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays).)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
95 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

Reject Constitutional Amendment 36:

The National Organization for Women,

Corvallis Chapter

Advocates a “NO” Vote on Constitutional Amendment 36

NOW is the National Organization for Women. We are dedicated
to making legal, political, social and economic change in our
society in order to achieve our goal, of eliminating sexism and
ending oppression. NOW has more than half a million members
with 550 chapters around the country, including Corvallis,
Oregon.
Mission: The purpose of NOW is to take action to bring women

into full participation in the mainstream of American
society now, exercising all privileges and responsibili-
ties thereof in truly equal partnership with men.

Why Should Oregon Voters Say “NO” to

Constitutional Amendment 36?

Constitutional Amendment 36 would hurt Oregonians and their
families in very real ways:

• Amendment 36 would put unequal treatment for gays and
lesbians in our Constitution resulting in same-sex couples
and their families being denied pension and other benefits
and legal protections.

• Amendment 36 would deny many Oregon families and their
children access to health care coverage, inheritance rights
or the ability to make end-of-life medical decisions.

Why Should Oregon Voters Say “NO” to

Constitutional Amendment 36?

The Oregon Constitution is designed to protect, not hurt
Oregonians.

• Our Constitution protects our most basic and important

rights. Constitutional Amendment 36 singles out some
Oregon families for unequal treatment under the law. All our
families should be treated fairly.

• Constitutional Amendment 36 will establish unequal treat-

ment as a constitutional principle. Unequal treatment is
always wrong, but it is doubly wrong to put it in our Oregon
Constitution.

For 38 years,

the National Organization for Women

has been dedicated to bringing
an end to unequal treatment.

Please Vote “NO” on Constitutional Amendment 36.

(This information furnished by Tina C. Empol, President, The National
Organization for Women, Corvallis Chapter.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

National Association of Social Workers

Oregon Chapter

Urges “NO” Vote on Constitutional Amendment 36!

Reject Constitutional Amendment 36:
Constitutional Amendment 36 would deny many Oregon families
and children basic needs like:

• Dependent healthcare coverage
• Inheritance and parenting rights
• Emergency medical decisions

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
96 | Statewide Measures

Oregon does not need Constitutional Amendment 36. Like many
measures we have seen before, it has unintended conse-
quences. We should not put amendments like this in the Oregon
Constitution.
Reject Constitutional Amendment 36:
As social workers, daily we see the real threats to marriage:

• Divorce
• Chemical dependency
• Family violence
• Financial stress

Constitutional Amendment 36 doesn’t do one thing to address
the true threats to marriage or to families. This Amendment
won’t save one marriage. It will only hurt real families by perma-
nently denying them everyday legal protections we all take for
granted.
Reject Constitutional Amendment 36:

Social workers know that families these days come in all shapes
and sizes. What’s most important is that every child in Oregon,
regardless of who their parents are, has the same safeguards
under the law. Constitutional Amendment 36 puts kids at risk
and would deny them basic legal protections.
Voting “NO” on Constitutional Amendment 36 protects Oregon
families from hurtful and unexpected impacts.

Please Protect Oregon Families…

Oregon Social Workers
Ask You to Vote “NO”

on Constitutional Amendment 36.

(This information furnished by Scott Manchester, Executive Director,
National Association of Social Workers, Oregon Chapter.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Unequal Treatment Does Not Belong in Our Constitution

Former Bar Presidents Say:

Constitutions outline the basic principles under which govern-
ments are organized, and Oregon’s Constitution clearly states
that equal treatment is one of those basic principles. Article I,
Section 20 of the Oregon Constitution requires government to
treat us all equally. It states that all privileges and immunities
provided by Oregon must be granted equally to all citizens. This
statement of equal protection means that Oregonians share in
equal measure all of the benefits and all of the burdens of
citizenship. Marriage and its benefits are among the privileges
and immunities our government must provide equally.
Constitutional Amendment 36 would be a direct violation of
the spirit of our Constitution:

• Despite our Constitution’s strong statement against unequal

treatment, Constitutional Amendment 36 turns its back on
one of our state’s fundamental principles and purposefully
introduces unequal treatment into our Constitution. If
Constitutional Amendment 36 passes, our Constitution will
say it is acceptable to treat certain Oregonians as second-
class citizens. That’s wrong.

• Constitutional Amendment 36 undermines the essence of

the Oregon Constitution. It conflicts with the letter and spirit
of Article I, Section 20. Our history has taught us that
unequal treatment is wrong, and hurts not only individual
citizens, but our state as well. Citizens should be able to
rely on our Constitution to protect them, not to harm them.

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

Unequal treatment does not belong in our Constitution.

Vote No on Measure 36.

Argument in Opposition

Kevin K. Strever
Edwin A. Harnden
Charles R. Williamson
Mark Johnson
Thomas C. Howser
Lawrence B. Rew

Judy Henry
Bernard Jolles
Angel Lopez
Robert H. Fraser
Dennis C. Karnopp

(This information furnished by Mark Johnson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

In accordance with the historical testimonies of The
Religious Society of Friends on equality and marriage, the
North Pacific Yearly Meeting (NPYM) opposes all attempts to
deny legal recognition of marriage of same sex couples.
This statement was agreed to in unity at the 2004 NPYM meet-
ing representing over 50 congregations of one branch of Friends
(Quakers) from the five Northwestern States. Quaker meetings in
Bend, Corvallis, Eugene, Portland, Salem, and the Rogue Valley
also have public statements supporting marriage equality.

Since 1989 Oregon Quakers have performed marriages of same-
sex couples; a practice deeply considered from religious, moral,
and personal perspectives. We believe such marriages are good
and right in the eyes of God. We urge you to respect our reli-
gious freedoms and beliefs and vote NO on Constitutional
Amendment 36 which would limit marriage.

Why are Quakers taking a stand contrary to social traditions?
Quakers have opposed many unjust traditions, such as slavery
and denying women the right to vote. Laws that enshrine
unequal treatment of people are wrong. Such laws follow the
worst traditions of discrimination. They are at odds with tradi-
tions of equality.

We support the tradition that marriage vows are a public state-
ment of love and commitment between two people. Our State
laws should support all marriages equally.
It is not fair that 5% of committed Oregonian couples, including
those married by Quaker meetings, are excluded from the hun-
dreds of legal benefits of marriage

Quakers are not trying to tell anyone what to believe. Similarly,
the State Constitution shouldn’t be rewritten making our belief in
marriage equality illegal. Although religions have different views
on marriage, our laws should provide equal benefits to all.

Churches aren’t required to sanction marriages contrary to their
beliefs. Equally, churches opposing marriage equality should not
impose laws which prohibit us from celebrating marriages
according to our beliefs.
Support religious freedom. Vote No on Constitutional
Amendment 36.

(This information furnished by Bonnie Tinker, North Pacific Yearly Meeting
of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers).)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

On July 12, 2004, the following resolution was passed unani-
mously by the Administrative Council of University Park United
Methodist Church. Subsequently, the entire congregation voted
unanimously to submit it to the Oregon Voters’ Pamphlet.

RESOLUTION

ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL OF

UNIVERSITY PARK UNITED METHODIST CHURCH

JULY 12, 2004

We are United Methodists who believe that our Christian faith
demands social justice and equality. We oppose any state or
federal constitutional amendments or laws defining marriage as
being only between one man and one woman. Such amend-
ments treat same gender couples as less than equal, denying
them equal protection under the law. This discrimination violates
God’s command that we love our neighbors as ourselves and
denies our convictions that all humanity, including gay men and
lesbians, are created in God’s image. We urge the defeat of
these constitutional amendments or laws at the state and federal
level.

(This information furnished by Rev. Dr. Jeanne G. Knepper, Rev. Marcia J.
Hauer, co-pastors; University Park United Methodist Church.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Working Families Oppose Unequal Treatment and urge you to

VOTE NO ON Constitutional Amendment 36

The language in this amendment is deceptively simple, but will
have serious negative consequences for Oregon, for families and
for business and labor.

Constitutional Amendment 36 is wrong for Oregon:

• Our Constitution was purposefully designed to provide jus-

tice and liberty, protect citizens, and to ensure all Oregon
citizens receive equal treatment. In the Bill of Rights it is
stated, “No law shall be passed granting to any citizen or
class of citizens privileges, or immunities, which upon the
same terms, shall not belong to all citizens.”

• Constitutional Amendment 36, sets a dangerous precedent
and is a severe deviation from what our founders intended.
The constitution - a historical, inclusive and revered docu-
ment, should not be permanently amended in order to
attempt to settle what some may feel is the hotly debated
social issue of the day, and to permanently write inequality
into the Constitution. There are many other avenues to
debate social issues.

Constitutional Amendment 36 is wrong for families:

• Amending unequal treatment into our Constitution would
deny thousands of Oregon families access to health care
coverage, inheritance rights, retirement benefits and equal
protection under the law. Oregon families are stronger only
when all Oregon families have fair rights and protections.
Constitutional Amendment 36 is wrong for business and labor:

• Constitutional Amendment 36 would make it impossible for

labor unions and employers to offer equitable benefits
packages to all their members and employees. The clear
discrimination of not allowing same-sex couples’ relation-
ships to be recognized by law deprives thousands of
families one of the most important attributes of their labor:
the ability to take care and provide for their family
members.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
97 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

We urge you to vote NO on Constitutional Amendment 36
Service Employees International Union Local 503, OPEU

(This information furnished by Arthur Towers, Service Employees
International Union Local 503, OPEU.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

These are just a few of the groups and individuals

from across Oregon

Who urge you to VOTE no on Constitutional Amendment 36:
CAUSA, Immigrant Rights Coalition of Oregon
Oregon Education Association
The Fair Housing Council of Oregon
Columbia County Citizens for Human Dignity
Rural Organizing Project
YWCA of Greater Portland
Klamath County Coalition for Human Dignity
The Women’s Resource Center of Central Oregon, Bend
Columbia Pacific Alliance for Social Justice, Astoria
Benton County Board of Commissioners
Planned Parenthood of Southwestern Oregon
Oregon Safe Schools and Communities Coalition
National Association of Social Workers, Oregon Chapter
Corvallis NOW
Kitty Piercy, Eugene
Bradley-Angle House, Portland
Harry and Merry Demarest, Corvallis
Wasco County Citizens for Human Dignity
Wallowa County Peace and Justice Network
Tillamook County Citizens for Human Dignity
Bruce Abernathy, Bend City Councilor
Linda S. Johnson, Bend City Councilor
John Hummel, Bend City Councilor
Elder Resource Alliance, Portland Metro Area
Outright Libertarians
Governor Ted Kulongoski, and Mary Oberst, First Lady of

Oregon, Salem

SEIU Local 49 and SEIU Local 503
Richard Matson, Philomath City Councilor
Human Dignity Coalition, Bend
State Rep. Kelley Wirth, Corvallis
Richard P. Burke, Commissioner, Tualatin Valley Water District
State Senator Vicki L. Walker, Eugene
State Rep. Carolyn Tomei, Milwaukie
Cliff Trow, Former State Senator, Corvallis
ILWU Local 5
Deschutes County Democratic Central Committee
Dan Saltzman, Portland City Commissioner
Kathleen D. Saadat, Portland
State Senator Kate Brown, Portland
State Senator Charlie Ringo, Beaverton
Portland Women’s Crisis Line
State Rep. RP Joe Smith, Portland
National Council of Jewish Women, Portland Section
James Maguire, Chairman, Beaverton Human Rights Advisory

Commission

OnwardOregon.org
Peace and Justice Committee, Salem First Congregational

United Church of Christ, Salem

Benton County Democrats
Wasco County Democratic Central Committee
Westside National Organization for Women, Portland
State Rep. Mitch Greenlick, NW Portland and Beaverton

For a full list of endorsers, go to www.noon36.com

(This information furnished by Ellen Lowe, No on Constitutional
Amendment 36.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
98 | Statewide Measures

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

One Oregon Family Speaks Out on

Constitutional Amendment 36

Family has always been very important to my wife, our children
and me. Joanne and I are third generation Oregonians and have
been married 48 years. We both have grandfathers who were
ministers and missionaries. We raised our children in conserva-
tive Christian churches. Among other things, my two brothers,
my sister and I have had breakfast together every Tuesday for
over 30 years.
Joanne and I have three wonderful children – two girls and one
boy – and are a very close family. Fifteen years ago, our son told
us he was gay and I had to address my personal attitude about
homosexuality.
I finally realized that although my feelings were strong, they
were based on misunderstanding and poor advice. By reading,
learning and listening to my son, I realized that gay people have
the same desires in life as everyone else. It especially touched
me when my son explained that he wanted to find someone to
share his life with just like Joanne and I have shared ours. His
commitment was just as strong as ours.

Why should my son not receive society’s respect and support
just as much as his sisters? We should be encouraging stable,
committed relationships for solid families even if they are differ-
ent from our own. Constitutional Amendment 36 would do the
opposite.
On behalf of my family, I urge you to look in your hearts and see
that this amendment would hurt families, not protect them.
Please vote NO ON Constitutional Amendment 36

Donald and Joanne L. Ross, Troutdale

(This information furnished by Donald Ross.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGON CLERGY URGE

A NO VOTE ON CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 36

As clergy and as people of faith we urge our fellow Oregonians
to reject Constitutional Amendment 36. We have several deep
concerns about this unnecessary and divisive measure.

Putting Unequal Treatment for Gays and Lesbians
in Oregon’s Constitution Will Not “Protect” Marriage

We perform weddings and counsel with couples before they are
wed, and afterwards. We see everyday the true threats to mar-
riage: abuse, alcoholism, poverty, infidelity and, ultimately,
divorce. This measure does nothing to address these problems.
Marriage needs no protection from people who wish to enter
into it in good faith to pledge their love and lifetime commitment.

A No Vote on Constitutional Amendment 36 Will Not

Force Any Church or Any Person to Act Against Their Faith

This measure deals only with civil marriage – a government
function. There is no threat to any religious tradition. Religious
institutions cannot be told who they must or must not marry.

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

Our Constitution Must Not Be Used
to Settle Theological Differences.

Just as Oregonians may disagree over marriage, so do different
religious traditions. Some accept same-sex unions, some do
not. It is a very dangerous step to have our Constitution dictate
theological “winners” and “losers.” When the government begins
to turn one particular religious school of thought into the funda-
mental law of the land, every religion is at risk. The very fact that
there is disagreement on this issue is an important reason not to
put this into our Constitution

Please Protect the Human Dignity of All People

and Protect Our Freedom of Religious Expression
VOTE NO ON CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT 36

Rev. Barbara Campbell, St. Mark Presbyterian Church, Portland

Rabbi Maurice Harris, Temple Beth Israel, Eugene

Rev. John T. Schwiebert, Metanoia Peace Community

Rev. J. Todd Smiedendorf

United Methodist Church

(This information furnished by Rev. Tara Wilkins.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The Following Central and Southern Oregon Clergy and
Congregations Urge you to vote NO on Constitutional
Amendment 36.

Catholic Loretto Women’s Network, Eugene
Temple Beth Israel, Eugene
Springfield Church of the Brethren, Springfield
Rev. Marsha Dempsey, Pastor, MCC Two-Rivers
Faith In Action
Morningside United Methodist Church
Lucy McIver, Eugene Friends Meeting (Quaker)
Rev. Ann Bowersox, Presbyterian Campus Pastor, University of

Rev. Jan Fairchild, Pastor-Springfield Church of the Brethren
Marion Malcom, Community Alliance of Lane County (CALC)
Beth Weldy, Board President, Springfield Unitarian Universalist

Oregon

Fellowship

Rabbi Maurice Harris, Temple Beth Israel, Eugene
Irwin H. Noparstak, MD, Jewish
Rev. Jeremy D. Hajdu-Paulen
Rabbi Yitzhak Husbands-Hankin, Temple Beth Israel, Eugene
Rev. Ryan J. Lambert
Gordie Albi, Catholic Loretto Women’s Network
Springfield Unitarian Universalist Fellowship
Rev. Elizabeth N. Oettinger
Rev. Beth Crawford
Religious Response Network, Eugene
Rev. Christine Riley, Unitarian Universalist minister
First Congregational United Church of Christ, Corvallis
Freedom Friends Church, Salem
Rev. Heather Lynn Hanson
Rev. Peggy Senger Parsons, Pastor, Freedom Friends Church
Rev. Karen E. Crooch, Morningside United Methodist Church
Jan Nelson, Morningside United Methodist Church
Rev. Richard R. Davis, Unitarian Universalist Congregation of

Renee Cornwell, United Methodist Church
Rev. C. Warren Hovland, First Congregational United Church of

Dr. Milo L. Thornberry, Pastor, United Methodist Church
Rev. Dr. Karen A. McClintock, United Methodist clergy, clinical

Salem

Christ, Corvallis

psychologist

Peace and Justice Committee of First Congregational Church,

UCC, Salem

Rev. Michael Powell
Arlene August, music minister, Congregational United Church of

Christ, Klamath Falls

Susan Alberty
David Hedelman, minister, Congregational United Church of

Christ, Klamath Falls

Rev. Leila A. Shepherd, United Church of Christ
Pastor Gail McDougle, Salem
Pastor Stephen Haddan, Salem
Rev. Caroline Zaworski, First Congregational United Church of

Christ, Corvallis

(This information furnished by Rev. Tara Wilkins.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The following Communities of Faith and Clergy urge you to

vote NO on Constitutional Amendment 36.

St. Mark Presbyterian Church (PCUSA)
Koinonia Catholic Community
Rev. Susan Princehouse, Minister, United Church of Christ
Rev. Mary Anthony
St. James Lutheran Church
Rev. Mary Sue Evers
Havurah Shalom, Portland
Rev. Barbara J. Campbell
Rev. Emily A. Champagne, Unitarian Universalist
Rev. David C. Dornack
Metropolitan Community Church of Portland
Rev. Lynne Smouse López, Ainsworth United Church of Christ
Rev. Timothy Winslea, PC(USA)
Rev. Berdell Moffett-Chaney
Cascade Chapter of More Light Presbyterians
Rev. Casey Moffett-Chaney, Portland Center for Spiritual Growth
Rev. Cort D. Brumfield
Rev. Peg Pfab
First Unitarian Church Board of Trustees
Rev. Glenna T. Shepherd, Metropolitan Community Church of

Portland

Rev. Judith Youngman
Rev. Cecil Charles Prescod
Rev. J. Todd Smiedendorf, Forest Grove United Church of Christ
AFFIRMATION – GLBT Mormons
Rev. Diane Dulin
Rev. Gary L. Davis, Lake Oswego United Church of Christ
Bridgeport United Church of Christ
Rev. Marcia J. Hauer
Rev. Joan L. Beck
Zion United Church of Christ
Rev. Elizabeth Winslea, PC(USA)
Rev. Sylvia J. Eagan
Rev. David Maynard, Eastrose Fellowship Unitarian Universalist
Dan Stutesman, American Friends Service Committee
Rev. Dr. Patricia S. Ross
Rabbi Daniel J. Isaak
Rev. D. Steven Witte, Oregon Farm Workers Ministry
Rev. Susan Leo, pastor, Bridgeport United Church of Christ
Rabbi Emanuel Rose
Rabbi Kim L. Rosen
Rev. Dr. Marilyn Sewell
Rabbi Joseph Wolf, Havurah Shalom
Rev. Dana Worsnop, Atkinson Memorial Church
Rev. W. J. Mark Knutson, Augustana Lutheran Church
Rev. Thomas Disrud, First Unitarian Church of Portland
Keshet Coalition
Rev. Richard F. Burdon, United Methodist Church

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
99 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

Eunice Schroeder, Director of Sacred Journey Ministries
Rev. Denise Andersen
The Session of Southminster Presbyterian Church
Peace Church of the Brethren
Rev. David Siegel, American Baptist
Rev. Ellen L. Green, United Church of Christ
Rev. Catherine Tinker, United Church of Christ
Rev. James O. Bradford, Disciples of Christ
Rabbi David Kominsky
Rev. Robert Schaibly
Rev. Katherine Hellier
Rev. Barbara Bellus, Epworth United Methodist Church

(This information furnished by Rev. Tara Wilkins.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The Oregon Business Community

Opposes Constitutional Amendment 36

Oregon’s businesses should oppose Constitutional Amendment
because it hurts Oregon families and it hurts Oregon businesses.
Constitutional Amendment 36 is bad for businesses:

• Constitutional Amendment 36 could harm Oregon’s abil-

ity to recruit new business and attract tourism. These
spending and investment decisions are usually made by a
very narrow margin. Putting unequal treatment for gays and
lesbians into our constitution could tip the balance in the
wrong way.

• Constitutional Amendment 36 could make it harder for

businesses to provide competitive benefits for all
employees – including same sex couples – which is an
increasingly important recruitment and retention tool.
Businesses want simplicity – the ability to offer the same
benefits to each employee streamlines benefits and keeps
costs down.

• The next generation of entrepreneurs do not support

Constitutional Amendment 36. Local polling shows
younger, well-educated voters support equal treatment for
gays and lesbians and will vote to reject this measure.
Allowing Constitutional Amendment 36 to pass undermines
the investments Oregon has already made to recruit and
retain young, creative entrepreneurs.

The following businesses and business leaders urge to
Vote “NO” on Constitutional Amendment 36:
Harold Pollin
Paloma Clothing, Mike Roach and Kim Osgood
Powell’s Books
Sho Dozono
Kalberer Company
Peter Bragdon
Joe D’Alessandro

For a full list of businesses supporting
No on Constitutional Amendment 36,

please go to www.noon36.com

(This information furnished by Joe D’Alessandro.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
100 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Opposition

Our family urges you to protect Oregon children.

All parents have the same worries about what will happen if their
child is injured in an accident: Will he be OK? Can we get to the
hospital in time? How can I comfort him?

These were just a few of the questions we asked ourselves
when our son Carter, who was five at the time, fell while playing
in our family home. His head met the sharp corner of a coffee
table, causing a gash that required a frantic trip to the emer-
gency room of our local hospital.
We arrived at the emergency room worried about our son and
anxious for the doctors to attend to Carter. When the time came
for him to receive treatment, we were told only one of us—“the
parent”—could enter the room with him.
Quickly, we explained that we were both his parents. “One of
you needs to stay in the waiting room,” we were told again.
Not wanting to delay our son’s treatment, we chose not to
argue. But while waiting for him to receive stitches, a look
around the waiting room made it clear that no other parents
were being asked to wait outside for their child. The hospital
policy to allow only one parent in the room while a child received
treatment only applied to our family – all the other injured or sick
children were able to have both of their parents comfort and
reassure them as they received treatment.
Our son should be able to have both of his parents by his side
when he is injured and frightened. Our child deserves the same
protections as every other child. But if Constitutional
Amendment 36 passes, it will cause unequal treatment for
thousands of Oregon families and their children.

Protect Oregon children. Protect Oregon Families.
Vote No on Constitutional Amendment 36.

Nancy and Peggy Frantz-Geddes, Salem

(This information furnished by Nancy and Peggy Frantz-Geddes, Salem.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

As nurses, we urge you to Vote No on Constitutional
Amendment 36!
As nurses, we know Constitutional Amendment 36 will
jeopardize the health of gay and lesbian couples and their
families:

• Constitutional Amendment 36 would deny many families
the ability to quickly and easily make life-saving medical
decisions in the case of an emergency.

• While some insurers allow domestic partner access to their
policies, many others do not. This lack of coverage leads to
delayed treatment and higher health care costs for all
Oregonians.

Constitutional Amendment 36 will force nurses to be
gatekeepers instead of caregivers:

• Banning same sex marriage puts nurses in the difficult

position of determining who is next of kin – and deciding
who can make medical decisions and who can be present
with a loved one during an emergency. We want to put our
efforts into our patient’s healthcare, not being gatekeepers.

• Federal HIPPA laws allow us to disclose medical informa-

tion to spouses and parents, but not necessarily to a

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

domestic partner. This makes consultation difficult, and
could delay proper treatment of children and adults.
As nurses, we believe in fairness and equality.

On behalf of nurses and health care providers, we urge you

to VOTE NO on Constitutional Amendment 36

Kathleen Sheridan, R.N.
Ursula White, R.N.
Mary Beth Yosses, R.N.
William D. Reinhardt, R.N.

Dana Welty, R.N.
Zannah Martell, R.N.
Carolyn A. Lynnes, R.N.
Madelon Lewis, R.N.

(This information furnished by Kathleen Sheridan, R.N.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

LIBERTARIAN PARTY OF OREGON SAYS

VOTE NO ON MEASURE 36

“Churches, not the government, should control the

marriage sacrament”

When a couple commits their lives to each other, government
has a legitimate role in establishing their legal rights and
obligations. But government has no business meddling in the
institution of marriage, which most Oregonians believe to be a
holy institution ordained by God.

Libertarians believe the institution of marriage should be
controlled entirely by our churches and other social institutions,
not by government. That is why we oppose Measure 36 - it asks
the wrong question, sets people of differing faiths against each
other and sets the dangerous precedent of letting government
define and control associations among people.

Instead of asking who should be able to marry, we should ask if
government should be involved in marriage at all. Government
should provide a legal structure, available to any couple, which
would establish legal rights and obligations. Couples could then
go to the church of their choice to be “married.” Individual
churches would decide who they will agree to marry or not
marry.
If you are a conservative supporting this measure, consider this:
if Measure 36 sets the precedent of allowing government to
define associations between people, the day will come when
liberals will use the same tactic against you.
Scratch the surface and you will see that Measure 36 is not
about marriage, it is about freedom. If Measure 36 passes,
government will effectively co-opt marriage, depriving churches
of the freedom to control their marriage sacrament. Individuals
will lose the freedom to make important decisions in their lives.
Measure 36 will set the stage for more government intrusions
into our private associations.

Let’s scrap Measure 36 and start over. Let’s pass a measure that
respects the rights of all individuals and ensures that govern m e n t
can no longer intrude into matters of faith.
VOTE NO ON MEASURE 36
1-800-829-1992
www.lporegon.org

(This information furnished by Dan Fitzgerald, Libertarian Party of Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
101 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Opposition

I’m Just a Kid. Don’t Hurt Me

Vote “No” on Constitutional Amendment 36

I like dancing, reading and hanging out with my friends in my
neighborhood. I have two Moms that love me and want the best
for me
But they are afraid, because Constitutional Amendment 36
would leave me without protections they say are important:

• Being sure I can get on their health insurance coverage

• Allowing both my parents to make decisions if I get hurt
• Having both my parent be able to sign permission slips or

deal with emergencies at school

• Knowing that I’m going to stay with one Mom, should

anything happen to the other

I’m just a kid and I just want the same protections that any other
kid needs. Please don’t do something that will hurt my family
and me.

Don’t Leave Kids Like Me Without Protections

Vote “No” on Constitutional Amendment 36

Henry P. Age 14

(This information furnished by Sue Kaufman & Laura Schulz, Henry’s
moms.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

“All forms of bigotry and discrimination are equally wrong and
should be opposed by right-thinking Americans everywhere… I
appeal to everyone who believes in Martin Luther King Jr.’s
dream to make room at the table of brotherhood and sisterhood
for lesbian and gay people.”

~ Coretta Scott King
at the 13th annual Creating Change conference
Reuters, 3/31/98

Putting Unequal Treatment into Our Constitution
Would Be a Giant Step Backwards for Civil Rights

Our nation was founded on high ideals of liberty, equality, and
the basic rights due to all people. While we have always lived up
to those ideals, we must always strive to move forward and not
backwards.
Civil rights is not always a comfortable subject. And marriage is
often the place where that discomfort is first felt. Until the
1960’s, the idea of interracial marriage was as controversial
among Americans as same-sex marriage is today.
Many states passed constitutional amendments to prevent
people of different races from marrying to “protect the integrity
of marriage.” When the Supreme Court overturned those
amendments, it declared that the “freedom to marry” is a basic
right.
Whenever we allow the rights of a minority to be put to a
vote of the majority, we take a giant step backwards in the
struggle for equality of all people.
Many of us may be uncomfortable with the idea of gay marriage,
but we must not allow that discomfort to be used to place
unequal treatment in our Constitution. We must not use our
Constitution to deny rights to our gay and lesbian neighbors,
family and friends.

continued ➔

Measure 36 Arguments

Please say NO to Unequal Treatment.

Please say NO to Constitutional Amendment 36

Sen. Avel Louise Gordly

Ramon Ramirez
Jo Ann Bowman
Vice-Chair African American Chamber of Commerce
Kathleen Saadat
Community Activist
Rev. John W. Garlington, III

Rev. Dr. Hector E. Lopez
Central Pacific Conference of the United Church of Christ

(This information furnished by Rev. Dr. Hector E. Lopez, Central Pacific
Conference of the United Church of Christ.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

From the Heart of Grandparents:

Vote “No” on Constitutional Amendment 36

This year we celebrated our 55th wedding anniversary. Over the
years, we’ve been through some wonderful times and some
pretty tough times, too.

One thing we know for sure, being married isn’t simple. After the
wedding ceremony was over, we found out just how much we
rely on each other and how much marriage protected us in times
of need. Certainly we counted on each other for love and under-
standing, but it was the things we took for granted that mattered
so much: the fact that there would always be someone who
could make decisions if either one was taken to the hospital, or
knowing that if one of us dies the other will keep the house and
our nest-egg – no questions asked.
We’ve raised three daughters and have four grandchildren –
that’s a lot of birthdays and scraped knees. Marriage has been a
blessing we hoped each of our children and grandchildren would
know, because we can’t imagine our lives without each other,
protected by our marriage.

But Constitutional Amendment 36 would deny many of those
protections – big and little things we take for granted – to two of
our grandchildren. Because they have two mothers, our grand-
kids can’t count on the protections marriage brings to a family.
They can’t count on both their parents being able to make
immediate medical decisions on their behalf, or being able to
stay with one parent if the other dies.
Constitutional Amendment 36 would not only put unequal treat-
ment of lesbians and gays into our Constitution, it would put
unequal treatment of their families – including our grandchildren
– into our Constitution.
Unequal treatment doesn’t reflect the Oregon values that we
raised our family with and it doesn’t belong in our Constitution.
Please vote “No” on Constitutional Amendment 36.
Alea and John deJung, Eugene

(This information furnished by Alea and John deJung, Eugene.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
102 | Statewide Measures

Measure 37

Proposed by initiative petition to be voted on at the General
Election, November 2, 2004.

(3) Subsection (1) of this act shall not apply to land use

regulations:

Ballot Title37

GOVERNMENTS MUST PAY OWNERS, OR FORGO
ENFORCEMENT, WHEN CERTAIN LAND USE RESTRICTIONS
REDUCE PROPERTY VALUE
RESULT OF “YES” VOTE: “Yes” vote requires that governments
pay owners, or forgo enforcement by repealing, changing, not
applying restrictions, when certain land use restrictions reduce
owners’ property value.
RESULT OF “NO” VOTE: “No” vote rejects requiring that
governments pay owners or forgo enforcement by repealing,
changing, not applying restrictions, when certain land use
restrictions reduce property value.
SUMMARY: Currently, Oregon Constitution requires govern-
ment(s) to pay owner “just compensation” when condemning
private property or taking it by other action, including laws
precluding all substantial beneficial or economically viable use.
Measure enacts statute requiring that when state, city, county,
metropolitan service district enacts or enforces land use regula-
tion that restricts use of private real property or interest thereon,
government must pay owner reduction in fair market value of
affected property interest, or forgo enforcement. Governments
may repeal, change, or not apply restrictions in lieu of payment;
if compensation not timely paid, owner not subject to restric-
tions. Applies to restrictions enacted after “family member”
(defined) acquired property. Creates civil right of action including
attorney fees. Provides no new revenue source for payments.
Certain exceptions. Other provisions.
ESTIMATE OF FINANCIAL IMPACT: The measure would require
state administrative expenditures to respond to claims for
compensation of between $18 million and $44 million per year.
The measure may require compensation to landowners. The
amount of state expenditures needed to pay claims for compen-
sation cannot be determined.

There is no financial effect on state revenues.
The measure would require local government administrative
expenditures to respond to claims for compensation of between
$46 million and $300 million per year.

The measure may require compensation to landowners. The
amount of local government expenditures needed to pay claims
for compensation cannot be determined.
The effect of the measure on local government revenues cannot
be determined.

Text of Measure
The following provisions are added to and made a part of ORS
chapter 197:

(1) If a public entity enacts or enforces a new land use regu-

lation or enforces a land use regulation enacted prior to the
effective date of this amendment that restricts the use of private
real property or any interest therein and has the effect of reduc-
ing the fair market value of the property, or any interest therein,
then the owner of the property shall be paid just compensation. 

(2) Just compensation shall be equal to the reduction in the

fair market value of the affected property interest resulting from
enactment or enforcement of the land use regulation as of the
date the owner makes written demand for compensation under
this act. 

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
103 | Statewide Measures

(A) Restricting or prohibiting activities commonly and histori-
cally recognized as public nuisances under common law. This
subsection shall be construed narrowly in favor of a finding of
compensation under this act; 

(B) Restricting or prohibiting activities for the protection of

public health and safety, such as fire and building codes, health
and sanitation regulations, solid or hazardous waste regulations,
and pollution control regulations; 

(C) To the extent the land use regulation is required to comply

with federal law; 

(D) Restricting or prohibiting the use of a property for the
purpose of selling pornography or performing nude dancing.
Nothing in this subsection, however, is intended to affect or alter
rights provided by the Oregon or United States Constitutions; or 

(E) Enacted prior to the date of acquisition of the property by

the owner or a family member of the owner who owned the
subject property prior to acquisition or inheritance by the owner,
whichever occurred first.

(4) Just compensation under subsection (1) of this act shall

be due the owner of the property if the land use regulation con-
tinues to be enforced against the property 180 days after the
owner of the property makes written demand for compensation
under this section to the public entity enacting or enforcing the
land use regulation.

(5) For claims arising from land use regulations enacted prior
to the effective date of this act, written demand for compensa-
tion under subsection (4) shall be made within two years of the
effective date of this act, or the date the public entity applies
the land use regulation as an approval criteria to an application
submitted by the owner of the property, whichever is later. For
claims arising from land use regulations enacted after the effec-
tive date of this act, written demand for compensation under
subsection (4) shall be made within two years of the enactment
of the land use regulation, or the date the owner of the property
submits a land use application in which the land use regulation
is an approval criteria, whichever is later.

(6) If a land use regulation continues to apply to the subject

property more than 180 days after the present owner of the
property has made written demand for compensation under this
act, the present owner of the property, or any interest therein,
shall have a cause of action for compensation under this act in
the circuit court in which the real property is located, and the
present owner of the real property shall be entitled to reasonable
a t t o rney fees, expenses, costs, and other disbursements re a s o n -
ably incurred to collect the compensation. 

(7) A metropolitan service district, city, or county, or state
agency may adopt or apply procedures for the processing of
claims under this act, but in no event shall these procedures
act as a prerequisite to the filing of a compensation claim under
subsection (6) of this act, nor shall the failure of an owner of
property to file an application for a land use permit with the local
government serve as grounds for dismissal, abatement, or delay
of a compensation claim under subsection (6) of this act. 

(8) Notwithstanding any other state statute or the availability
of funds under subsection (10) of this act, in lieu of payment of
just compensation under this act, the governing body responsi-
ble for enacting the land use regulation may modify, remove, or
not to apply the land use regulation or land use regulations to
allow the owner to use the property for a use permitted at the
time the owner acquired the property.

(9) A decision by a governing body under this act shall not be
considered a land use decision as defined in ORS 197.015(10).

(10) Claims made under this section shall be paid from funds,

if any, specifically allocated by the legislature, city, county, or
metropolitan service district for payment of claims under this

continued ➔

Measure 37

act. Notwithstanding the availability of funds under this subsec-
tion, a metropolitan service district, city, county, or state agency
shall have discretion to use available funds to pay claims or to
modify, remove, or not apply a land use regulation or land use
regulations pursuant to subsection (6) of this act. If a claim
has not been paid within two years from the date on which it
accrues, the owner shall be allowed to use the property as
permitted at the time the owner acquired the property.

(11) Definitions – for purposes of this section:
(A) “Family member” shall include the wife, husband, son,

daughter, mother, father, brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent, stepchild, grandparent,
or grandchild of the owner of the property, an estate of any of
the foregoing family members, or a legal entity owned by any
one or combination of these family members or the owner of
the property.

(B) “Land use regulation” shall include:

(i) Any statute regulating the use of land or any interest

therein;

(ii) Administrative rules and goals of the Land Conservation

and Development Commission;

(iii) Local government comprehensive plans, zoning ordinan-
ces, land division ordinances, and transportation ordinances; 

(iv) Metropolitan service district regional framework plans,

functional plans, planning goals and objectives; and

(v) Statutes and administrative rules regulating farming and

forest practices.

(C) “Owner” is the present owner of the property, or any

interest therein.

(D) “Public entity” shall include the state, a metropolitan

service district, a city, or a county.

(12) The remedy created by this act is in addition to any other
remedy under the Oregon or United States Constitutions, and is
not intended to modify or replace any other remedy.

(13) If any portion or portions of this act are declared invalid
by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of
this act shall remain in full force and effect.

Explanatory Statement

Ballot Measure 37 adds a new statute to ORS chapter 197. As

specified in the measure, the owner of private real property is
entitled to receive just compensation when a land use regulation
is enacted after the owner or a family member became the
owner of the property if the regulation restricts the use of the
property and reduces its fair market value.

If a property owner proves that a land use regulation restricts
the use of the owner’s property, and reduces its value then the
government responsible for the regulation will have a choice:
pay the owner of the property an amount equal to the reduction
in value or modify, change or not apply the regulation to the
owner’s property.

The measure allows the state, county, city or metropolitan
service district to adopt procedures for processing claims for
compensation, but prohibits those procedures from being
treated as a prerequisite to the filing of a claim in circuit court.

The measure does not apply to commonly and historically
recognized public nuisances, public health and safety regula-
tions, regulations required to comply with federal law, and
regulations restricting or prohibiting the use of a property for the
purpose of selling pornography or performing nude dancing.

The measure specifies that compensation is due if the regula-

tion remains in force 180 days after the owner makes written
demand for compensation. After that time, the present owner
may file an action in the circuit court in the county in which the
property is located. The measure also specifies that the present
owner is entitled to reasonable attorney fees, expenses,
costs and other disbursements reasonably incurred to collect
compensation.

The measure provides no new revenue source for payments, if

any, required under this measure.

The measure defines several terms that are used in the statute

including “family member” which is defined as wife, husband,
son, daughter, mother, father, brother, brother-in-law, sister,
sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent, stepchild,
grandparent, or grandchild of the owner of the property, an
estate of any of the foregoing family members, or a legal entity
owned by any one or combination of these family members or
the owner of the property.

Committee Members:
David Hunnicutt
Dale Riddle
Bernie Bottomly
Patricia McCaig
Jack Roberts

Appointed by:
Chief Petitioners
Chief Petitioners
Secretary of State
Secretary of State
Members of the Committee

(This committee was appointed to provide an impartial explanation of the
ballot measure pursuant to ORS 251.215.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
104 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments
Argument in Favor

VOTE YES FOR MEASURE 37

“Whether you own property or not you benefit from protecting
property rights, just as you benefit from free speech whether you
exercise that right or not”. Thomas Sowell

That is why the framers included in the Fifth Amendment to

the Constitution a protection for private property..“Nor shall pri-
vate property be taken for public use without just
compensation”.

Government regulators tend to view the taking clause of the
Fifth Amendment as an unfortunate obstacle. It is far easier for
them to achieve their ends by taking from a few property owners
than it is to tax all the voters to pay just compensation.

Government depends upon taxpayers to generate wealth and

taxpayers depend upon security in their financial affairs (clear
title for ownership). Therefore, property rights need to be taken
seriously and are essential to the generation of wealth upon
which all government depends.

1.5 million of your taxpayer dollars!!!
That’s 1.5 million of taxpayer dollars for land that we would
have voluntarily sold to them for $14,000. What a waste.

We support Measure 37 because it will cut down on endless
litigation like ours. If Measure 37 would have been in place in
1987, the City of Tigard would have purchased our land for
$14,000, instead of fighting us every step of the way and even-
tually wasting $1.5 million hard earned tax dollars.
What happened to our family is unfair --the current system
forces ordinary Oregon property owners into years of costly and
stressful litigation just to be compensated for what everyone
agrees is fair.
Please help fix the system…Please vote Yes on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Dan Dolan.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

George Washington said “Freedom and property rights are

inseparable. You cannot have one without the other”.

Argument in Favor

According to Saint Thomas Aquinas: “Private ownership of

property is the best guarantee of a peaceful and orderly society
for it provides maximum incentive for responsible stewardship”.
Our Oregon Century Farms are an excellent example of this.
This measure is an effort to require just compensation for

government actions that diminish the value of private property.
We recommend a YES vote.

Jerry A. Dyksterhuis, Farmer
Deanna Dyksterhuis, Farmer

Scott E. Dyksterhuis, Farmer
Gylan Mulkey

Gwendolyn J. Mulkey
Rita Swyers

(This information furnished by Deanna Dyksterhuis.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon Farmers Ask That You Vote Yes On Measure 37.

People work hard for their property. Whether a home or a saving
account, your property is the result of hard work and effort. No
one should be able to use a legal loophole to take away your
property without compensation. Especially not government.
Over the past years we have seen state and local governments
take the use and value of private property by using a loophole in
the law. Sure, they tell you that you can fight them in court….but
it will take years and your attorney fees alone will likely exceed
the value of your property. That is not fair and they know you
can’t afford it.
Measure 37 closes the loophole and streamlines the process.

No one has the right to take private property without compensa-
tion, not even government — that is why we need Measure 37.

Josephine County Farm Bureau asks that you

vote yes on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Keith Nelsen, President, Josephine County
Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

The Current System Is Broken – And It Costs

Everybody Money

Argument in Favor

The Dolan family urges you to support Measure 37
In 1987, we asked the City of Tigard for permission to expand
our local plumbing store. The City agreed, but they then said
they would not issue a building permit unless we gave them a
significant portion of our property for a bike path.
We told the City that we would sell them the land they wanted
for $14,000, which was the fair market value of the land.
But the City said no, and told us that we would not get our
permit unless we turned over our land for free.
We spent the next 10 years fighting the City through a maze of
legal bureaucracy -- all over a $14,000 strip of land. We went to
the Oregon Land Use Board of Appeals, the Oregon Court of
Appeals, the Oregon Supreme Court, the United States Supreme
Court, and back down again.

Finally, after 10 years of fighting, the City paid for an easement
across our land and paid our attorney fees. The cost --

Dorothy English
I am a Chief Petitioner for Ballot Measure 37. Some say I am the
poster child for Ballot Measure 37.
My husband and I purchased our property in 1953. It was our
dream to someday divide the property, give some of it to our
children and grandchildren, and sell the remained for our retire-
ment. We have always paid our taxes, and never been on any
type of tax deferral.

Nevertheless, Multnomah County zoned our property as com-
mercial forest land even though there isn’t a commercial timber
operation anywhere near our property. What’s more, Multnomah
County knows our property is mis-zoned, but refuses to do
anything about it.
Oregon’s land use system is supposed to be balanced and fair.
It is neither. Multnomah County has made it perfectly clear to
me, and many other property owners, that the county intends to

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
105 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

be neither balanced nor fair.
Governor Kulongoski told Multnomah County that he sympa-
thized with my problem and asked the County to work with me
to help resolve my case.

But the County refused to help. Multnomah County Chairwoman
Diane Linn even personally asked the Governor to veto a bill that
would have restored some of the rights my husband and I had
when we first purchased the property - that is how unfair
Multnomah County has been.
Opponents of Ballot Measure 37 are trying to scare the voters
into opposing this measure. Please do not believe their scare
tactics. Ballot Measure 37 will help senior citizens like myself
recover what has been stolen from us.
Oregon’s land use system is in need of repair. Our elected
leaders, community leaders, and newspapers, are unwilling to
support the necessary changes. It’s time for Oregonians to do
the work ourselves. It is time we say “no” to the scare tactics
and restore fairness and balance to the system. 

Thank you for taking the time to read my comments. Please vote
yes on Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Dorothy English.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

THE OREGON HOMEOWNER’S ASSOCIATION

ASKS FOR YOUR VOTE ON MEASURE 37

Measure 37 is Critically Needed
If you are like most Oregonians, your home and property is your
most valuable asset.
What would you do if you were stripped of the value of your
home by regulations that were changed overnight, without
warning?

Unfortunately, this is an all too common occurrence in Oregon.
Based on misguided notions of the public good, politicians and
planners have created a never ending stream of new laws and
restrictions that destroy your investment, your hopes, and your
dreams.
This needs to stop!
Measure 37 is Homeowners’ Insurance
We all buy home insurance to protect our property from floods,
fires, and other natural disasters.
But you can’t buy insurance to protect your home from 
unexpected changes in property regulations.
Measure 37 fills that gap, and doesn’t cost a dime!

Ballot Measure 37 is a family’s first and best line of defense for
protection of their property.

No one should have to worry about their home and property
being taken away by an overreaching government bureaucrat.
It’s your property, your hard work, and your investment.
Protect it by voting Yes on Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Leigh Foxall, Oregon Homeowner’s
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
106 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Favor

Oregon Family Farmers Ask For A Yes Vote on Measure 37:
The Voters Have Already Spoken: Government Should Not

Be Able To Take Property Without Compensation
In November 2000 voters overwhelmingly voted in favor of
Measure 7 which required compensation to property owners
when government take private property. The Oregon Supreme
Court threw-out Measure 7 on a technicality….Measure 37
restores the will of the Oregon voters.

The Current System Needs to Be Fixed

Currently government and property owners are forced to spend
millions and millions per year in litigation and process. Property
owners should not be required to submit application after appli-
cation to the government to receive what they deserve.
Measure 37 corrects this problem and streamlines the process –
this will save the property owners and taxpayers money.

The Current System Only Helps A Few… .

Hurts Small Farmers

The only way to be treated fairly by the current system is to have
the financial means to litigate, and therefore negotiate, with the
bureaucracy. That’s why you may see some big and corporate
farmers opposing Measure 37…the current system works for the
big guys.

Measure 37 will help small farmers, small property owners and
the average homeowner when they face the power of govern-
ment taking private property.

All of Us Work Hard For Our Property

If state or local governments want to take your property then
they should be required to pay for it.

Measure 37 Is Simple

If you have any questions about Measure 37…just read the
Measure. It is simple and straightforward. Measure is about
restoring fairness to an expensive, broken process.
The Oregon Family Farm Association PAC asks you to vote
yes on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Larry George, Oregon Family Farm
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Jim Watts
Until this year, I owned three parcels outside of Sisters. I paid a
handsome price for each parcel, because I was able to build a
house on each parcel.

Because I am disabled, and limited in the work I can do, I pur-
chased these parcels as an investment for my retirement.

Unfortunately, with no warning or notice to me, the regulations
on my property were changed. These changes took away my
right to build a home on each parcel.
With the stroke of a bureaucrat’s pen, my property was stolen.

And so, in 1998, I began a long odyssey to restore my rights.
Finally, after five years of countless hearings, legal paperwork,
meetings with lawyers, and multiple application fees, I got my
rights back.

I was one of the lucky ones. Unlike so many other governments,

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

Deschutes County worked hard to help correct the laws which
stripped my property of its value.

So why did it take five years to get back what was stolen from
me? Because one couple fought every effort I made to restore
my rights. They even argued that my property was needed for
farming because a neighbor had once grown marijuana on his
property!
Opponents of Measure 37 falsely claim that Measure 37 will
create a new and burdensome process. I fought for five years to
restore rights that were taken from me. Isn’t that a burdensome
process?
Do you have five years and thousands of dollars available to
fight for the right to live on your property? There is no process
that is more burdensome or expensive than what we currently
have in Oregon.
Measure 37 presents a streamlined process that treats all
Oregonians equally. Had Measure 37 been in place when I pur-
chased my property, I would not have had to go through five
years of hell in order to restore my rights.
If Measure 37 passes, you won’t have to.

Please support Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Jim Watts.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

STATE LEGISLATORS SUPPORT MEASURE 37

As your elected state legislators, we strongly support the pas-
sage of Measure 37.

We have all heard the heart wrenching stories of Oregonians
whose hopes and dreams were destroyed by land use regula-
tions placed on their property after they purchased it.
An elderly farmer loses the right to divide his farm to give to his
children. A couple lose the right to live on their lot in a sub-
division because their property has a “scenic view.” A young
family loses the right to put a swing set in their backyard
because it would “disturb the natural area.”

These types of examples, and many others, are why Measure 37
is so important. People work hard to save enough money to buy
property. No one should take property without compensation –
not even the government.

But more than that, Measure 37 provides an economic boost
that Oregon so desperately needs. By allowing state and local
government to return the property rights they have taken from
Oregonians instead of paying compensation, Measure 37 allows
Oregonians to use their land to create jobs, boost property and
income tax revenues, and help fund essential government
services. And this is all accomplished not through raising taxes,
but by putting more faith in people and the private sector. What
a concept!
The right to own and use property is what makes America the
greatest country on Earth. Measure 37 protects that right. That’s
why we support it. We hope you will too.

Jackie Winters, State Senator
Steve Harper, State Senator
Bruce Starr, State Senator
Gary George, State Senator
Bill Fisher, State Senator
Charles Starr, State Senator
Roger Beyer, State Senator
Tim Knopp, State Representative

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
107 | Statewide Measures

Linda Flores, State Representative
Gene Whisnant, State Representative
Dennis Richardson, State Representative
Jerry Krummel, State Representative
Donna Nelson, State Representative
Cliff Zauner, State Representative
Tootie Smith, State Representative
Jeff Kropf, State Representative
Gordon Anderson, State Representative
Susan Morgan, State Representative
Wayne Scott, State Representative

(This information furnished by David J. Hunnicutt, Family Farm
Preservation PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

SMALL BUSINESSES SUPPORT MEASURE 37

On behalf of the Oregon chapter of the National Federation of

Independent Business (NFIB), please join me in voting yes on
Ballot Measure 37.

Small businesses are the heart and soul of Oregon communi-

ties. Small business owners are community leaders, volunteer
coaches, mentors, and church leaders. NFIB/Oregon is dedi-
cated to protecting the interests of small businesses throughout
the state.

But over the years, small businesses have increasingly

become the focal point for new and more burdensome regula-
tions on our right to own and use property.

These regulations are often well intentioned but they have the
effect of making it difficult or impossible for our members to stay
in business. This hurts every Oregon community, especially our
smaller towns.

You’ve probably heard some of the horror stories – the

City of Portland demanding $36,000 in fees from a restaurant
owner who wanted nothing more than to move his restau-
rant across the street, or the City of Tigard demanding a
$37,000 “traffic impact fee” from a company that wanted to
improve its offices for its existing employees, but would not
create any new traffic.

Making it more difficult for businesses to grow and expand

hurts our economy and our public sector.

Fortunately, Measure 37 will help ease that burden. Measure

37 levels the playing field between private citizens and that small
but powerful segment of state and local government that wants
to impose more and more regulations on our private property.

And Measure 37 contains important exceptions to help main-

tain well-planned and livable neighborhoods.

Small business owners should not have to live in fear of

having the rug pulled out from under their feet by new property
restrictions that destroy their property’s value and make it harder
for their business to survive.

Its your property, its your investment, and its your hard

earned money. Measure 37 protects that investment.

Please vote yes on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by J.L. Wilson, National Federation of
Independent Business/Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments
Argument in Favor

Please join the Deschutes County Farm Bureau in voting YES on
Measure 37.

Jim Parker
My wife and I own a home on 1.5 acres located in Beaverton,
Oregon. We have owned the property for 39 years. When we
purchased our home, one of the unique features was a creek on
the property. Approximately four years ago the City of Beaverton
came up with a plan that was intended to protect wildlife habitat
in the stream.
Originally, Beaverton’s plan was to redirect the creek to an area
of my property that was considered to be a wetland. However,
the city changed its mind and diverted the creek elsewhere,
along a nearby road. As a result, the creek bed on my property
is now dry and the wetland is hardly wet at all. But this was just
the beginning of our problems.
Despite the fact that my property no longer has an active creek
running through it, nor does it have a “wet” wetland on it,
Metro recently mapped our home as “wildlife habitat” and is
considering placing severely restrictive environmental overlay
zones on nearly all of our property.
The irony of our situation should not be lost. There is no
“wildlife habitat” on our property because the City of
Beaverton dried up the creek! Nevertheless, we are going to
lose all of our rights because the government wants to
protect wildlife habitat! If the government wants to protect
habitat, the City of Beaverton shouldn’t have dried up the
creek.
And who is going to pay for this? My family. We are going to
have to bear the burden of the cost of preserving this “habitat”.
We won’t be allowed to “disturb” any of our property because
doing so would disrupt the non-existent wildlife on the dry creek
bed.

Ballot Measure 37 will protect people from ridiculous regulations
by protecting the rights you had at the time you bought your
property. Please join me in supporting Ballot Measure 37. 

(This information furnished by Jim Parker.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Deschutes County Farm Bureau

Yes On Measure 37!

Measure 37 is very simple. If government takes your property,
then government should pay for it.
Just because government has found a loophole, that doesn’t
mean that Oregon voters should allow property owners to
continue to lose property without compensation. To fight these
“takings” in court, it takes years of expensive litigation, which
they know we cannot afford.

State and local governments realize that Oregon’s family farms
and ranches are already under great financial pressure and we
can’t fight back.
It shouldn’t cost private property owners thousands of
dollars in litigation and attorney fees to receive what is fair.
These “takings” are happening to farmers, ranchers, and home-
owners all over Oregon…and the system needs to be fixed. 
Oregon voters overwhelming approved Measure 7 in 2000…but
the Supreme Court threw it out on a technicality. Measure 37 will
make it clear that Oregon voters want property owners to be
treated fairly.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
108 | Statewide Measures

Thank you.

(This information furnished by Matt Cyrus, Deschutes County Farm
Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Matt Roloff

We own a 25 acre pumpkin patch and peach orchard in rural
Washington County. My wife and I are limited in our ability – not
by our desire but rather by our physical limitations. I am the
Past-President of the Little People of America, an association
dedicated to improving the lives of little people across the
country. My wife and I purchased our farm with the hopes of
raising our children in a rural setting.
On our farm we grow pumpkins and peaches, depending on the
season. We have built some play structures including an Old
West Town, a Pirate Ship, a Treehouse, and a Castle, for our
kids, but they are also available to the public during the harvest
season. Over the years, our farm has become a regular spring
and fall destination for families who want to make a day out of
selecting their pumpkins or picking peaches.

One of our competitors in Washington County filed a complaint
and demanded that Washington County shut down our farm. I
will not back down, and because of that, Washington County
continues to try to stop our family, despite the fact that numer-
ous farms across the county engage in exactly the type of
business practices that we do.

Aren’t Oregon’s land use laws supposed to protect farms?
Apparently not.

That’s why we support Ballot Measure 37. If the government
wants to apply the law to some farmers but not others, then we
all need protection from the government. What happens when
the government doesn’t like you? Right now there is no protec-
tion in the law. Ballot Measure 37 gives you that protection.
Please join us in supporting Ballot Measure 37. Protect
rights for all Oregonians, not just those the government
likes.

(This information furnished by Matt Roloff.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

OREGON EMPLOYERS SUPPORT MEASURE 37
As some of Oregon’s largest employers, we support Ballot
Measure 37.
Our companies employ thousands of Oregonians throughout the
state. We understand that a fundamental key to a healthy econ-
omy is a respect for the ability of every citizen to own and use
property.
Without this ability, our companies would not be successful, we
would not have jobs for our employees, and we would be unable
to serve our local communities.

Unfortunately, the ability to own and use property in Oregon is
under constant attack, more so than in any other state in the

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

United States.
The delicate balance between needed property regulations and
free enterprise is skewed to the point where it is hard for Oregon
companies to compete with our neighboring states, much less in
a global marketplace. This is one reason why Oregon consis-
tently ranks among the states with the highest unemployment
rate.
And that is why Measure 37 is so critically needed.

Measure 37 strikes a balance between regulation and the free
market. It ensures that no Oregon citizen or business, large or
small, is singled out to bear the burden of property restrictions
that are designed to benefit us all.

At the same time, Measure 37 does not apply to regulations to
protect the public health and safety, like pollution control laws or
health and safety codes.
Without Measure 37 and the additional protection for property
owners it provides, there will be less opportunity for businesses
to grow and expand in Oregon. That hurts us all, and hurts our
schools and other vital public services, which depend on private
enterprise for funding.

We are proud of our Oregon heritage and proud to endorse
Measure 37. Please vote Yes on 37.

Aaron U. Jones, President, Seneca Sawmill Company
Michael A. Fahey, President, Columbia Helicopters
Robert Freres Jr., Freres Lumber Co. Inc.
Joan Austin, Executive Vice President, A-dec, Inc.
Steven D. Swanson, Swanson Group, Inc.

(This information furnished by David J. Hunnicutt, Family Farm
Preservation PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon Citizens For A Sound Economy PAC

Urges You To Vote YES On Measure 37

Oregonians work hard for their property - if government

wants to take private property government should pay for it.
Measure 37 Will Stop the Hidden Tax
Oregon’s state and local governments have found a loophole
that allows them to take private property without compensating
the owner. The only option is for the property owner to sue,
spending thousands of dollars in litigation fees. This is
unrealistic.
Because people cannot afford to fight, government gets their
property for free. That’s wrong. Taking property and destroying
people’s investments is an unfair, hidden tax on average
Oregonians.
Measure 37 Will Help the Economy and Increase Jobs
Many businesses are afraid to build in Oregon when we have a
system that can take private property without compensation.
Measure 37 gives security to property owners, so they know
they can use their property for what it is zoned for. That will
attract new businesses to Oregon and create more jobs.
Measure 37 Will Save Taxpayers Money and Streamline the
Process
It costs hundreds of thousands of dollars to challenge an unfair
property regulation today. These challenges clog up the judicial
system, cost the taxpayers money, and create years of
frustration.
And even when the local government wants to help, one
dedicated obstructionist can delay the process for years. For

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
109 | Statewide Measures

example, one property owner in Deschutes County asked the
County to correct a zoning mistake that nearly eliminated the
property owner’s ability to use his land, and destroyed its value.
When the County attempted to correct its error, one private
citizen created roadblocks to the County efforts. It took nearly
six years to fix an error that should have been fixed overnight.

Measure 37 will streamline the process and reduce costs to
property owners and taxpayers. We strongly urge taxpayers to
support Measure 37.
Oregon Citizens For A Sound Economy PAC

(This information furnished by Russell Walker, Oregon Citizens For a
Sound Economy PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Tim and Casey Heuker
On December 31st, 2000, we were the proud owners of a
beautiful three-bedroom home with an unobstructed view of the
Columbia River. On January 1st, 2001, our home burnt to the
ground.
After recovering from the shock of losing our home to fire, we
immediately applied for a building permit. Our permit was
originally approved by Multnomah County.
We thought everything was finished. But our nightmare was
just beginning.

The Columbia River Gorge Commission, along with a group
calling themselves the “Friends of the Gorge,” began tormenting
our family in a fight which has taken three years, thousands of
dollars, and placed considerable emotional strain on our family.

And why did they fight our application? Because they wanted us
to plant over $100,000 in new trees and shrubs in front of our
home so that it couldn’t be seen from the river.
And all we wanted to do was rebuild our family home.

It is unbelievable to us that we were treated this way. Our night-
mare lasted over three years and cost us thousands of dollars.
How can anyone believe that this is fair?
A simple, easy to understand, process such as such as
Ballot Measure 37 will allow homeowners like us to avoid a
three-year delay simply because we want to rebuild our
home.
Measure 37 is homeowner’s insurance from delay, stall tactics,
and costly litigation.
Please join us in supporting measure 37, and protecting the
rights of homeowners in Oregon.

(This information furnished by Tim Heuker, Casey Heuker.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon Cattlemen’s Association Supports Measure 37

Measure 37 is needed to help the environment and the
economy

Unlike most industries, we make our living from the land. As a
result, we have a keen interest in preserving our property and
being good stewards of the land, so that we can provide the

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

public with quality Oregon grown beef.
But too often, well-intentioned but misguided politicians create
new laws and regulations which make it harder for us to use our
land and stay in business. Rather than helping the environment,
these regulations hurt the environment, as more and more beef
is imported from third world countries where people don’t own
their land and have no incentive to protect it.
Measure 37 protects our property rights, protects our invest-
ments, and makes sure that politicians think about the impact of
new regulations on all Oregonians, including property owners.
Measure 37 reduces costly litigation
Measure 37 sets-up a straightforward process to require govern-
ment to pay landowners when newly created laws or regulations
cause a loss in value to their private property. Presently, the
Oregon Constitution states that state government must pay if it
“takes” private land for the public benefit. But “takings” law is so
convoluted that there is little hope of compensation when gov-
ernment regulations reduce the value of private property.
A restored balance that is fair.
Ultimately this state must seek to ensure a balance between
e n v i ronmental and economic concerns in our land use decisions.
Measure 37 restores that balance and protects property owners.
New land use restrictions will still be an option, but under
Measure 37 landowners won’t be asked to bear the entire cost
of those restrictions.

Measure #37 brings much needed balance and

fairness to the process.

The Oregon Cattlemen’s Association urges you to

support Measure #37

(This information furnished by Coy Cowart, President, Oregon Cattlemen’s
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Toni Beattie

My husband and I own 31 acres in North Plains that we pur-
chased in 2000. Our land is zoned commercial forest and it has
a house on it that was built around 1961. We purchased the
property with the intent to operate a horse boarding and lesson
facility.
My husband and I have applied for a replacement dwelling on
our property. Once our application is approved, we must disable
the existing dwelling. In order to provide proper care to boarding
horses, we thought it wise to turn the older dwelling on our
property into caretaker house. This is where our problems
began.
In order to have two dwellings on my property, we needed to
rezone the property from commercial forest to farmland. And we
had to show that we could make $80,000 a year boarding
horses! If I can make $80,000 a year boarding horses, I would
not have the need for caretaker. I would be able to hire people,
outside employees, to come in and care for the horses.
My husband and I want to operate a small farm on our farmland
with a caretaker. But Oregon land use laws are not allowing us
to do so. The only a reasonable option we have left is Ballot
Measure 37, which will restore our rights, and be fair for every-
body. Please join me in voting yes on Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Toni Beattie.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
110 | Statewide Measures

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

OREGONIANS IN ACTION URGES

A YES VOTE ON MEASURE 37

Treating people fairly is a foundation of our country.
If you are like most voters you know that government is required
to pay you if they take your land - in fact, its required by the
Constitution.

Most of the time, government complies with the Constitution
and pays for what it takes.
But sometimes, instead of paying for what it wants, govern-
ment decides that it can simply adopt a law that makes it
impossible for a landowner to use his land.
This is like telling your neighbor he can’t live in his house, and
then offering to buy it from him at pennies on the dollar.
In order for a landowner to challenge a government regulation
that takes away the value of his property, a landowner must fight
a long and costly court battle. This is fine for large corporations
or a few wealthy land barons.
But the thought of paying lawyers hundreds of thousands of
dollars to fight a court battle for your home or land is too much
for the average American family. Most people give up before
they ever get started.
That’s why Measure 37 is important.
Measure 37 will guarantee that you are treated fairly by the
government. If they want your land, that’s fine, provided they
pay you for it.
Simple, understandable, and fair. That’s what Measure 37 is all
about.
Please vote yes on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by David J. Hunnicutt, Oregonians In Action.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Barbara and Eugene Prete
We are two of the chief petitioners for Ballot Measure 37. In
addition to being chief petitioners, we are also victims of
Oregon’s land use system. We have been married for 42 years.
Gene is a retired Lt. Col., having served 21 years in United
States Army.

Barbara’s grandfather immigrated from Norway to Oregon as a
logger. In 1989, we decided to travel Oregon and visit the areas
logged by Barbara’s grandfather. While traveling through Sisters,
we decided to retire there. In 1990, we purchased property in
the Sisters area with the intent to build a retirement home for us
and our horses.

The Deschutes County Hearings Officer’s decision summarizes
what Oregon’s land use system has done to us:

The applicants purchased the property in 1990 with the
intent of building a home on it. The hearings officer is aware
that at the time the applicants purchased the property, the
county routinely approved conditional use permits for
nonfarm dwellings on these types of parcels. However, in

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

the early 1990s, partly as a result of an enforcement order
issued by the Land Conservation and Development
Commission (LCDC) requiring the county to enforce more
rigorous sighting standards for nonfarm dwellings, approval
of nonfarm dwelling conditional use permits became more
difficult.

The hearings officer acknowledged that we were willing to take
substantial steps toward mitigating the perceived effects caused
by our home. Nevertheless because a bureaucrat in Salem
decided to take away our right to build a home, only our horses
are allowed to live on our property.
That was 11 years ago. We still don’t have the right to build a
home on our property, even though we had that right when we
bought the property. Our dreams have been taken from us. All
we want to do is live on our property.
Measure 37 will restore and protect the rights of Oregonians.
Please join us in voting yes on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Eugene Prete, Barbara K. Prete.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

COUNTY COMMISSIONERS SUPPORT MEASURE 37

As County Commissioners, we support Measure 37.
Unlike other states, where local communities plan their own
urban neighborhoods and rural areas, a large percentage of our
planning laws are mandated by state agencies and the
legislature.
As a result, we are often hamstrung by statewide, centralized
planning laws and rules that have devastating impacts to the
property owners in our counties.

Whether it’s telling a farmer he has to make $80,000 in order to
live on his land, prohibiting a rural church from being too close
to town, or watching a business leave the community because
of endless permit delays, we see the “on the ground” impacts of
ever increasing property restrictions in ways that state bureau-
crats could never imagine.

These ever changing rules and laws create fear among the com-
munity, and discourage investment. Why would a business build
a new plant or office if they knew that the rug could be pulled
out from under their feet before the project is even completed?

Measure 37 will stabilize our planning system, ensure that
property owners don’t lose their life savings at the stroke of a
pen or on the whim of a mid level manager in Salem, and give
our citizens more control over their own lives.

We like that, because we believe in the private sector, and in our
citizens, neighbors, and friends.

Measure 37 restores lost opportunities, and returns more control
over private property to where it belongs – the people.

Please join us in voting yes on Measure 37.
John Lindsey
Harold Haugen
Jack Walker
Anna Morrison
Dan Van Slyke
Kathy George
Leslie Lewis

(This information furnished by David J. Hunnicutt, Family Farm
Preservation PAC.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
111 | Statewide Measures

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Gary Dye
I bought a 16,000 square-foot lot, zoned R-10-c, in Southeast
Portland. This zoning designation requires that a lot be at least
10,000 square-feet to build a home. The “c” indicates a conser-
vation overlay zone. When the property was first purchased, this
designation didn’t carry many restrictions, so building a modest
home seemed pretty straightforward.
After years of hard work and saving, I eagerly went to get my
building permit. The City of Portland, however, had other ideas.
In the time since my purchase, the City placed more and more
restrictions on the property, ultimately converting it into a wildlife
habitat reserve: over 2/3 of the property set aside for the City,
less than 1/3 left for me!
Conforming to the City’s new restrictions, the design of my
modest 3-bedroom home repeatedly underwent extensive and
costly changes. Even after these changes, the property can’t be
fenced (protecting my home from intruders, providing my kids a
safe place to play, or giving my dog some running room), there
is very little front or side yard, and the back “yard” is only 5
FEET deep.

Most alarming, the City’s restrictions contradict the Fire Bureau’s
recommendation of a 30-foot buffer between homes and dense
vegetation. The City won’t allow this buffer, subjecting my home
and family to the threat of urban wildfires. I’m prohibited from
“disturbing” trees, brush, or even WEEDS without repercussions
from the City.

I would sympathize if the property contained old-growth trees, a
stream, eroding slopes, or endangered species habitat, but it
does not – it contains only AREA that the City wants for itself.
The City seizes land for free while the property owner bears
huge cost increases for design, construction, and additional reg-
ulatory fees. Yes, I must pay the City a fee for taking my land,
increasing my costs, compromising my home, and endangering
my family!
Approval of Measure 37 provides much-needed control over
this currently abused process.

(This information furnished by Gary Dye.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

SENIORS AND FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN – IF YOU WANT

TO KNOW WHY MEASURE 37 IS IMPORTANT,

JUST ASK METRO

Metro, the Portland area regional government, is currently in the
process of adopting new regulations that will place thousands of
acres of privately owned land into “wildlife” and “riparian area”
zones, regardless of your concerns or the wishes of your city or
county government.

As a property owner, should you be concerned about these new
regulations? Here’s what Metro has to say:
“Real property is one of the largest economic investments
many people make and regulations affecting property are an
important and sensitive social issue. For residential land in
particular, a regulatory program could impact personal

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

financial security or the expectation to maintain, develop or
redevelop land within the existing regulatory framework.
Regulations that result in reductions to property value may
affect people’s ability to draw on the equity in their homes to
fund retirement, education, and other activities.” (Staff
Report, Resolution No. 04-3489, August 12, 2004).
Metro is right. When you bought your home, did you have any
idea that the rules could be changed to take away rights that
you paid for? Most people don’t know until it is too late.

That is why Measure 37 is important. Measure 37 allows Metro
to continue to adopt new regulations, but only if Metro is
willing to pay for what it takes. That’s only fair.
No property owner should have to worry that their retirement,
their children’s education, or their personal financial security will
be destroyed by well-intentioned but misguided laws. Measure
37 will make sure that this doesn’t happen. Please join us in
voting Yes on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by David J. Hunnicutt, Oregonians In Action.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Robert and Marilyn Lowery
We live in Keizer, Oregon, on property that has been in the
Lowery family since 1946. We have raised our family here. Our
son was born in our house. We have operated our family nursery
here. This property is truly our home.
Our property is located in an area that is considered prime
commercial real estate. Already, the city of Keizer has approved
plans to take our property and give it to a private party so they
can build a Krispy Kreme donut shop on the place where our
home currently stands. The master plan approved by the city of
Keizer makes immediate short term plans for our property even
though we did not give the city the permission to do so. Right
now we are locked in and can’t get out.
In other words, it is as if the city or county you live in decided
the property your house currently sits on would be better used
as a bank, or a restaurant, or a Krispy Kreme donut store, and
the city or county tells you that the moment you disturb the
property you must instead build that bank, that restaurant, or
that Kristy Kreme……
Without ever asking you!

Oregon’s land use laws are being abused every day. Property
owners across the state are being subjected to onerous 
regulations which devalue property, and in cases like ours, strip
property owners of all their rights. We are being bullied by the
city because the city knows we have no protection.
Yet.

Ballot Measure 37 will protect property owners from actions of
the government that take your property without your permission
by “freezing” the rights you had at the time you purchased your
property. Ballot Measure 37 is common sense legislation that will
protect you from the kinds of tactics we have been subjected to.
Please join us in supporting Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Robert Lowery, Marilyn Lowery.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Jackson County Farm Bureau Asks For

A Yes Vote For Common Sense

Dear Fellow Voters:
Small family farmers all over Oregon depend on using their prop-
erty to make a living – and we cannot afford the current system
where government can take the value and use of property with-
out compensation.
It sounds shocking to people who are not familiar with the loop-
hole that allows government to take property without paying for
it – but that is why we need Measure 37.

Measure 37 is about fairness.
We all work very hard for our property, and if government wants
to reduce the values of our property then government should
pay for it.

If state and local governments are allowed to continue to take
advantage of this unfair loophole then every property owner and
every homeowner will have to worry about the security of their
investment.

Please join Jackson County Farm Bureau in supporting Measure
37.

(This information furnished by Ron Bjork, Jackson County Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Tater Patch Quilts
We are the owners of Tater Patch Quilts, a small quilting store
located in Merrill, Oregon. Our store, started in 1996, is a unique
store which offers quilting supplies to customers all over the
country. Our unique location allows us to market our products to
Oregonians and Californians.

We own property right along the Oregon-California the border.
The property is located next to a state highway.

On our own property, we decided to erect a small sign
advertising Tater Patch Quilts. By the way, our sign is right next
to a “Welcome to Oregon” sign.
Even though our sign is on our own property, the State of
Oregon wants us to tear it down because signs promoting busi-
nesses are prohibited on our property, no matter how big or
small. If the state can welcome visitors, why can’t I welcome
people to my store?

I can’t believe how difficult the state wants to make it for Oregon
businesses to survive.

What is most insulting is that the State of Oregon’s sign still
remains.

Ballot Measure 37 will restore rights Oregonians have held near
and dear for decades. Please join us in restoring property rights.
Please vote Yes on Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Lee McKoen, Diane McKoen, Robin King.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
112 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments
Argument in Favor

Phillip DuFresne
I own Big Bear Market. For those of you who are familiar with
the Historic Columbia River Highway, you are also likely familiar
with our market.

I have been privileged to operate the market for many years.
The market has been a part of the community for over thirty
years. As you can imagine, over the years the business grew
and it became necessary to provide additional services to my
customers.
Each time we added onto our building were never informed by
Multnomah County that our building actually violated the
County’s code. In fact, the last time we added onto our building
in 1994, the County’s planner said our building was in full
compliance with the County’s code.

And then tragedy struck Big Bear Market in 2003. Part of our
building burned to the ground. When the flames were extin-
guished one would have thought our nightmare was over and we
would be allowed to put our lives – and our business – back
together. One would be wrong. The fire was only the beginning
of our troubles.

Despite the fact that Multnomah County told us in the past that
our building was in compliance with the County’s code, a new
planner at Multnomah County with a political agenda felt other-
wise. Despite the fact we had received approvals for our past
additions, the County was not going to let us rebuild our busi-
ness because the rules had changed.

Through no fault of our own tragedy struck the business, and
now the County is doing everything it can to see to it that my
business remains destroyed, and they are using Oregon’s land
use laws as their torch.

Ballot Measure 37 will restore fairness and balance to a system
dominated by fear and oppression. Ballot Measure 37 will
protect small businesses like our from the political will of a few
unelected bureaucrats.

Please join me in voting yes on Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Phillip DuFresne.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

We are the chief petitioners for Ballot Measure 37. This state-
ment is provided in order to instruct and aid the Oregon courts
in determining the legislative intent behind Ballot Measure 37,
and avoid misinterpretation of the intent of this law, as Oregon
courts are known to do.

Voters are told that Ballot Measure 37 creates a large bureau-
cracy and red tape for property owners. Such claims are false.
Ballot Measure 37 does not require any governmental unit to
adopt any procedures for addressing Ballot Measure 37 claims.
No applicant is required to follow a process conjured up by
government. The measure makes this clear. All a property owner
has to do is submit a letter or other communication demanding
use or just compensation for his property – nothing more. There
is no requirement that the state government or the local govern-
ment adopt any new processes.

Second, voters are being told that the definition of “owner” is
ambiguous. The term “owner” includes the current owners of the
property. If the current owner sells an interest in her property, so
long as the current owner still has a current possessory interest,
or a reversionary interest in the property, the provisions of Ballot

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
113 | Statewide Measures

Measure 37 apply using the date the current owner acquired the
property. Only if a current owner sells all of her interest in a
piece of property does the date of acquisition change for
purposes of determining what regulations are subject to Ballot
Measure 37 protections.
Finally, opponents of Ballot Measure 37 are trying to scare
voters into thinking the measure will prevent the state govern-
ment and local governments from enacting nuisance abatement
laws. This is incorrect. Nuisance abatement laws are exempt
from Ballot Measure 37 protections, but again, a law that is
currently considered a regulation of land use under Oregon law
cannot be re-characterized as a nuisance abatement ordinance
in order to avoid Ballot Measure 37.
Please vote Yes on Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Dorothy English, Barbara Prete, Eugene
Prete.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Ruth Pruitt
I purchased my property in Portland over ten years ago. At the
time I purchased my property, it was approximately 3.47 acres of
land that could be used for industrial or commercial develop-
ment. My property is prime industrial and/or commercial real
estate. It would seem logical, then, that the governor and the
City of Portland would want to encourage development on my
property.

As you can imagine, the city of Portland wants nothing to do
with industrial or commercial development, especially not on my
property.
My parcel is not developed. Sometime in late 1993, the City of
Portland began slowly – – a death by a thousand cuts – –
encroaching on my property, using easements, zoning overlays,
and environmental overlays, taking away my ability to use my
own land. Because of the regulations imposed by the city, of the
original 3.47 acres of land that I own, only one-half acre of my
land is actually usable.

But wait, there is more.
To make matters worse, the City of Portland requires 3.3 feet of
wetland mitigation for every 1 foot of development. As a result, it
will be impossible for me to do anything on my property except
leave my property in “its natural state”.
I have had everything taken for me. The entire value of my
property has been taken from me by the city of Portland for the
public’s benefit, but I am being forced to pay for it by myself.
The city of Portland has stolen my life savings from me.
When Enron steals your life savings, it’s considered theft.

When the City of Portland steals your life savings, its called
“new regulation.”

Ballot Measure 37 simplifies the process, restores our rights,
and most importantly protects the life savings of Oregonians.
Please join me in voting yes on Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Ruth Pruitt.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments
Argument in Favor

Ruth Grimsrud
My family has owned property in rural Yamhill County for several
years, since 1950 to be exact. In 1997, my father passed away
and my sister and I inherited the remainder of the family prop-
erty. Because of the costs associated with settling my father’s
estate, my sister and I decided to divide the property, sell one
parcel to settle the estate, and keep one parcel for each of us
with the intent that we would build homes on our property.

When we divided the property in the year 2000, we specifically
described the access points each new parcel would have. The
county approved our plans, including the new access points
for each parcel. We thought the matter was finished.

I was wrong. I am the last person to try to build a home on the
new parcels. I have tried to sell my property, but cannot,
because a county employee won’t allow me the access the
county earlier approved - he claims that the county’s ordi-
nances prevent access to the nearest road. According to the
county, I must now construct a bridge by importing several
thousand yards of fill dirt into a stream, across my neighbor’s
property, in order to gain access to my property, at an added
expense of several thousands of dollars.
For those of you who are recent homeowners or property own-
ers who don’t think Ballot Measure 37 will protect your rights,
consider my situation. My access was approved by the county
in the year 2000, and then less than four years later those
rights have been taken from me. If Ballot Measure 37 was the
law in Oregon right now, my rights would not have been taken
from me.

Please join me in supporting Ballot Measure 37. 

(This information furnished by Ruth Grimsrud.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

The Molalla Christian Church

The Molalla Christian Church is a growing church in Molalla
whose membership is primarily made up of rural residents of
southern Clackamas County. Our present facility has many con-
straints that limit our ability to grow and accomplish our religious
mission, i.e. limited parking, location in a residential neighbor-
hood with no room to expand, and very small rooms for
children’s classes.
More than ten years ago, the leadership of the church decided
that we should locate and purchase a new property that
would allow us to build a multipurpose facility that would better
accommodate the congregation, and would also allow for
enough space for other activities for our youth and the com-
munity. In 1997, we purchased a ten acre parcel located outside
the Molalla Urban Growth Boundary.

We hired an attorney and started the long, drawn-out process
with Clackamas County. The planning department and the
County hearings officer denied our application because Oregon’s
land use system makes protecting farmland more important than
religion. We appealed to the Clackamas County Commission,
who approved our application based on Federal law.

In what seems to be the standard operating procedure in
Oregon, a fringe group that believes “farmland” is the Holy Grail,
appealed the County’s decision to LUBA. Unfortunately, their
appeal was granted.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
114 | Statewide Measures

After two years of litigating this issue we are back at square one.
What is really difficult for us to understand is that if we built an
identical structure and called it a community center there would
be no problem. However, once we started talking about God in
the building, we could be prosecuted.
It is unbelievable that in the land of liberty, private property 
owners, no matter whether you are a farmer, rural resident, or a
church, we do not have the right to use our property in a manner
to meet our own needs. Ballot Measure 37 will restore those
rights.

Please join us in supporting Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Martin Kirk.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Endorsing Measure # 37

The Oregon State Grange (OSG) endorses Measure # 37. The
OSG has specific policy statements that address the need for
government to compensate for loss of use or value of private
property. To begin with, OSG policy Le08.90 states; “We are
opposed to LCDC’s Goal 5, or any similar act, which virtually
halts all economic use of property by setting it aside for wildlife
habitat, scenic views, wetlands and other public uses without
compensation to the owner. Furthermore, if state land use
planning arbitrarily changes the use and value of any land,
appropriate compensation for the loss of value should be given.”
Furthermore, policy Le02.95 states, in part; “We will work with
State Legislators, the LCDC, and all other pertinent agencies to
require that any public institution that condemns property for
public use must pay the difference in fair market value…” The
OSG’s membership is made up of mostly families from smaller
communities and rural areas who, know the importance of
protecting private property and OSG policy Le05.95 states; “We
are against the abrogation of Private property rights and will use
any means necessary to return and defend private property
rights.”

Oregon State Grange
643 Union Street NE
Salem, OR 97301-2462 

(This information furnished by John Fine, Oregon State Grange.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

We are the chief petitioners of Ballot Measure 37. This statement
is provided in order to instruct and aid the Oregon courts in
determining the legislative intent behind Ballot Measure 37, and
avoid a situation where the Oregon Courts misinterpret the intent
of this law, as Oregon courts are known to do.
Several special interest groups are trying to confuse the voters
about Ballot Measure 37. These groups are trying to make Ballot
Measure 37 seem much more complicated than it really is.

For instance, opponents of Ballot Measure 37 are distorting the
compensation protections of Ballot Measure 37. Through the
normal condemnation process, the state government and local
governments have an efficient statutory procedure already used
to determine just compensation. The process is quick, clean,
and extremely efficient and will be the basis for determining just
compensation under Ballot Measure 37.

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

Next, opponents of Ballot Measure 37 try to confuse the issue of
just compensation by claiming it will be impossible to determine
what regulations will trigger a property owner’s rights under
Ballot Measure 37. Again, any land use regulation (as that term
is currently defined in Oregon law) enacted after a property
owner acquired the property that has the effect of reducing the
fair market value of your home will trigger Ballot Measure 37’s
protections. If, for instance, there are three regulations which
reduce a property’s value, a property owner can demand use or
compensation based upon the effect of any of the three regula-
tions, or based upon the effect of all three regulation, or any
combination thereof.

What’s more, subject to the statute of limitations in section (5), if
a property owner submits demand for use or compensation
based upon one regulation, the same property owner is not pre-
cluded from later demanding use or compensation based upon
regulations that existed at the time the property owner submit-
ted her first demand.

Please join us in voting Yes on Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Dorothy English, Barbara Prete, Eugene
Prete.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Ollie Wilcox

My name is Ollie Wilcox. I am 75 years old and I own 8.32 acres
in Colton, Oregon. I’ve owned this property since 1965 have
always paid by taxes with the idea that in my senior years this
property would provide me with a comfortable retirement, which
would keep me from being dependent upon the government for
support.

All of the other parcels surrounding my property are 2 to 5 acres
parcels. My property has the typical urban services such as
electricity, city water, access to the road, or fire protection.
Further, subdividing my property is supported in my community:
39 of the citizens who live within a quarter-mile of my property
signed a petition supporting my application to divide my prop-
erty. There simply is no compelling reason why my property
should not be divided.

My property was intended to be my retirement. And Clackamas
County took it from me. When Clackamas County steals your life
savings, they hide behind Oregon land use laws. The fact is that
Oregon’s land use laws are stealing the life savings from
Oregon’s seniors.
All I want to do is to enjoy the rights I had when I purchased my
property nearly 40 years ago. I don’t believe that I am asking for
too much, nor do I believe that it is unreasonable for Oregonians
to expect their property rights to be respected.
Ballot Measure 37 will restore the rights of Oregonians, rights
that were taken away by an unfair, unbalanced system. I have
been fighting Clackamas County for many years, and I plan to
continuing the fight. Ballot Measure 37 will help families avoid
losing retirement the way I lost mine. Please join me in voting
yes on Ballot Measure 37. 

(This information furnished by Ollie Wilcox.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
115 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Favor

Dean Grudzinski
I purchased a relatively small parcel in the southwest hills of
Portland in 1986. At the time I purchased the property, I could
have divided it into three parcels. As far as I knew, the area
where my property is located – at the time I purchased the prop-
erty – planned to be developed as any ordinary Portland
neighborhood.
Over the next few years the city of Portland continuously
“upzoned” the property across the street from me, allowing
significantly higher development densities than originally
planned, but beneficial to me nonetheless. After development
was completed in my neighborhood, three of the four parcels
surrounding my property had been developed - I went from
having four neighbors to thirteen neighbors in this period of
time.
Then, the city of Portland got involved.

My property was downzoned in 2001, and the city of Portland
placed an environmental overlay zone on my property.
“Environmental overlay zone” is government-speak for “a home
for a fish is more important than a home for your family”. In fact,
I received a letter from the city of Portland to that effect.
The other reason my property was downzoned? All of my new
“neighbors” liked my property in its natural state and they didn’t
want to see it developed. These people wanted to keep my
property natural so they could enjoy nature and protect their
“visual sensibilities”, their “livability”, and their “community
aesthetics”.
However, my neighbors don’t want to pay for these benefits.
They want me to pay for it. And I am.
Everything has been taken from me. Three years later I still have
not recovered my rights, and the city of Portland has no inten-
tion of restoring them. The only protection homeowners and
property owners in Oregon have from having everything taken
from them is Ballot Measure 37, which will protect the rights you
had at the time you purchased your property.
Please join me in voting Yes on Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Dean Grudzinski.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

As chief petitioners of Ballot Measure 37, it is necessary to
correct the false statements made by groups who oppose
common sense reform to Oregon land use system. In addition,
this statement is provided in order to instruct and aid the Oregon
courts, so to avoid the courts from misinterpreting our intent
behind this measure, as the Oregon courts have a habit of
doing.
Despite claims to the contrary, Ballot Measure 37 does not
prohibit the state of Oregon and/or local governments from
adopting laws that regulate public health and safety. In fact,
Ballot Measure 37 specifically excludes statutes and regulations
like fire codes, building codes, health codes, sanitation codes,
solid wastes or hazardous waste regulations and/or codes,
pollution control regulations, traffic safety regulations, from being
subject to Ballot Measure 37’s protections.
It is not our intention that Ballot Measure 37 be interpreted in
such a way as to allow statutes, regulations, goals, ordinances
or whatever other means of regulation currently defined in
statute, regulation, case law etc. as a land use regulation to be

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

bootstrapped into the definition of building codes, public health
and safety codes, sanitation codes, or public welfare codes, by
the courts.
In other words, there currently exists a body of law in Oregon
which defines what constitutes regulation of land use. It is those
regulations that are subject to the provisions of Ballot Measure
37. The state government and/or local government should not
be allowed to rename a land use regulation simply to avoid the
protections of Ballot Measure 37.
In sum, it is likely that opponents of Ballot Measure 37 will
continue to distort the intent and effect of the measure long after
the measure is voted on. Hopefully we the chief petitioners have
provided a clarity as to the intent of Section (3)(B) of Ballot
Measure 37.

Thank you for taking the time to read our comments. Please join
us in supporting Ballot Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Dorothy English, Barbara Prete, Eugene
Prete.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

TRUCK DRIVERS SUPPORT MEASURE 37

The Oregon Forest Products Transportation Association urges a
yes vote on Measure 37.
Oregon has a long history of family owned timber operations.
For decades, timber and agriculture formed the backbone of
Oregon’s economy. Rural communities and small towns were
built around timber harvesting and the jobs it provided.
This proud tradition is alive today. Our members live and work in
rural areas and small towns across the state. We work hard for a
living, and are proud to be good stewards of the land that we
own and which contributes directly to our livelihood.
Because we make our living from the land, we have a deep
respect for the right of Americans to own and use their property.
We know that without this right, all of our other rights are
seriously weakened, and our freedoms are in jeopardy.
We support Measure 37 because it protects private citizens and
their property. When regulations change after property is pur-
chased, we suffer, and so do the families and businesses that
depend on us.
Without Measure 37, we are at the mercy of extremists who file
lawsuits to challenge every job we work and lobby state officials
to change the rules to make it impossible for us to stay in busi-
ness. When this happens, no one wins (except the lawyers).
Measure 37 will make sure that property owners are treated
fairly, and that no one is forced to give his land to the state for
free. That’s not the way things are done in this country.

Please vote yes on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by D.E. Bridges, Oregon Forest Products
Transportation Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
116 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Favor

If you are like most people, your home and property are the
most valuable thing you own.

That’s why most people are very careful when they buy property.
You check to make sure that you can use your land before
paying for it. After all, you want to be sure that the property can
be used for a home, business, or farm or whatever else you
had in mind.
But what happens when the government changes the rules
after you purchase your land, and you can no longer use
your property as you had planned? In most cases, you lose.

Why? Because a court cannot award you money for the loss of
the use of your land until you have submitted enough applica-
tions to the government to prove that your land has no value. In
some cases, as many as 25 separate applications must be filed.

Each of these applications costs money - in many cases, the
cost to submit the applications is more than the value of the
property!
In other words, you have to pay multiple application fees to
the same government that changed the rules and took away
all value of your property, just to get your day in court, and
even if you win in court, you don’t get your application fees
back. What a rip off.
Measure 37 will end this ridiculous game. Rather than making
a landowner submit application after application to the govern-
ment, knowing full well that each application will be denied,
Measure 37 sets up a simple process for making your claim for
compensation.
If the government takes your land, they should pay you for it,
and they shouldn’t tie you up in red tape and outrageous fees
just so you can have your day in court.

Please vote yes on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by David J. Hunnicutt, Family Farm
Preservation PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Protect Oregon’s Family Farm Base and Schools

Rural Schools and Communities Depend on Property Values
Not only do farms and ranches depend on property values, local
rural communities depend on the tax base to run local govern-
ments and local schools. When government takes private
property values, everyone loses.
If it is Free, Then There is Unlimited Demand

Unfortunately, even though the Constitution requires compensa-
tion when government takes your land, some governments
refuse to pay for what they take. They know that almost no
landowner will have the money or stamina to fight a lengthy
court battle just to recover the lost value of their land. Because
there is little chance that their actions will be challenged, there
are no consequences to taking land without paying for it.
We Need a Balance Between the Economy and Preservation

There are some Oregonians who want to stop all land uses on
rural lands, and make Oregon one giant public park. We all
cherish Oregon’s public parks and beaches. But we also need to
make sure that farmers, ranchers, and foresters have land to
farm and harvest timber. These industries create jobs and tax
revenue for struggling Oregon towns and cities.

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

By allowing government to preserve areas it wants to protect,
and allowing other lands to be used, we strengthen our econ-
omy, and provide help for so many Oregonians in depressed
areas.
Vote Yes on Measure 37
Measure 37 clears away government hurdles to compensation,
and strikes a balance between the economy and preservation. A
yes vote on Measure 37 will provide much needed relief for
farmers and ranchers, and will strengthen the tax base in all
Oregon communities.

(This information furnished by Larry George, Oregon Family Farm
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

MEASURE 37 BENEFITS TAXPAYERS

The Taxpayer Association of Oregon (TAO) urges a Yes vote on
Measure 37.
Oregon taxpayers would be wise to support Measure 37. In
November, 2000, the State of Oregon estimated that the state
and local government property regulations took over $5 billion
per year in property value from Oregon property owners.
It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to figure out what happens
to property taxes when government regulations lower the
value of property – the tax revenues go down. Imagine what
would happen if the government restored just a fraction of what
it took each year.
When state or local governments pass new regulations that
lower property values, everyone loses. The property owner
loses because his property’s value has been destroyed. Cities
and counties lose because their tax base goes down. And
remaining taxpayers lose because they are asked to pay more
taxes to make up the loss resulting from the adoption of the new
regulations.
On the other hand, when state or local governments give
property owners freedom to use their property, everyone
wins. The property owner realizes his investment. Cities and
counties have a new source of revenue. Jobs are created for
Oregon residents. And remaining taxpayers aren’t asked to
support higher and higher tax increases.
It doesn’t matter whether you are a renter or a homeowner.
When the property tax base shrinks because more property is
taken off the tax rolls by property restrictions that destroy its
value, we all pay more. What a rip off.
We believe in Oregon property owners, and we trust that they
will make wise use of their property, if they are just given the
opportunity. That’s why we support Measure 37.

For more information on protecting your property rights, go to
www.oregonwatchdog.com.

Please vote yes on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Jason Williams, Taxpayer Association of
Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Private property is one of the most basic freedoms spoken
of in the Bible. The 8th Commandment prohibits theft. The case
laws in Exodus 21-23 require restitution to owners of property
stolen or damaged by others. Deuteronomy 27:17 requires God’s
people to affirm private property rights or be cursed (“Cursed be
he that removes his neighbor’s landmark. And all the people
shall say, Amen.”). Clearly, private property is to be protected by
the government.

This stress found its way into the formation of our country.
Thomas Jefferson’s inalienable rights of “life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness” were a recasting of John Locke’s “life,
liberty and property.” Our happiness is tied to the right use of
our property. So, our founding fathers placed a high wall of
protection around these rights. The Bill of Rights includes the
“right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses,
papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures.”
English common law, the basis for our national Constitution,
allowed governments to take private property when needed for
public purposes. This is called “eminent domain.” But it insisted
that the owner be paid for the land taken. Sometimes the
government’s actions don’t result in a total taking of someone’s
property. The government may rezone your land, restrict your
right to use the trees on it, etc. In these cases, this Measure
would ensure that you be paid for the loss of value that you
have suffered at the hands of the government.

Good men may disagree whether eminent domain is appropriate
in a Christian society. But all should agree that the State should
recompense the owner for property taken. And the State
should recompense the owner for whatever reduction in
value the State’s actions create. We thus recommend a Yes
vote on Measure 37.

Dennis Tuuri for the Parents Education Association

Box 847, Canby, OR 97013 503-263-8337 peapac.org

(This information furnished by Dennis Tuuri, Executive Director, Parents
Education Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

$$$ MAKE MONEY FAST WITH MEASURE 37! $$$

WE ARE LOOKING FOR PROPERTY OWNERS WHO WANT TO
CAPITALIZE ON MEASURE 37! WHEN PASSED, THIS MEA-
SURE WILL ELIMINATE ALL ZONING AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION IN PROPERTIES ACROSS OREGON.
We need:

1. Homes in high-income neighborhoods where we can open

new RESTAURANTS, STRIP MALLS, and NIGHTCLUBS.

2. Homes in rural neighborhoods to locate ADULT

ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES such as swingers’ clubs,
lingerie shows, and male-only bathhouses.

3. Homes in any area for textile-processing FACTORIES and

medium-security DETENTION FACILITIES.

4. Farmland in any area for rapid development of WASTE

PROCESSING and maximum-security private
PENITENTIARY SYSTEMS.

5. Timberland in any area for LOGGING, OPEN-PIT LEACH

MINING, and SUB-DIVISION.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
117 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

I am a land speculator originally from Southern California. My
team and I can match your property with aforementioned
businesses for FAST PROFIT. As Measure 37 can eliminate ALL
zoning, we are interested in any property, regardless of current
zoning, proximity to schools, or environmental safeguards.
Oregon residential areas offer prime targets for development of
exciting “in-neighborhood” businesses, including retail, adult,
small-scale industrial, and gaming & gambling. Measure 37 may
open up all residential areas to such profitable ventures.
PLEASE CONTACT US ASAP AS THIS IS A LIMITED TIME
OFFER. IT IS NECESSARY TO ACT BEFORE THE MONEY
RUNS OUT - TAXPAYERS MUST FOOT THE BILL TO PAY OFF
CLAIMANTS TO ABIDE TO LOCAL ZONING. THIS WILL COST
100s OF MILLIONS ANNUALLY (AND THIS IS WHERE WE WILL
GET OUR MONEY!)
MEASURE 37: GET YOURS WHILE THE GETTING’S GOOD!

http://www.GetRichQuickWithMeasure37.com
http://www.GetRichQuickWithMeasure37.com
http://www.GetRichQuickWithMeasure37.com

(This information furnished by Peter Bray.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

$$$ MAKE MONEY FAST WITH MEASURE 37! $$$

WE ARE LOOKING FOR PROPERTY OWNERS WHO WANT TO
CAPITALIZE ON MEASURE 37! WHEN PASSED, THIS MEA-
SURE WILL ELIMINATE ALL ZONING AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION IN PROPERTIES ACROSS OREGON.

We need:

1. Homes in high-income neighborhoods where we can open

new RESTAURANTS, STRIP MALLS, and NIGHTCLUBS.

2. Homes in rural neighborhoods to locate ADULT

ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES such as swingers’ clubs,
lingerie shows, and male-only bathhouses.

3. Homes in any area for textile-processing FACTORIES and

medium-security DETENTION FACILITIES.

4. Farmland in any area for rapid development of WASTE

PROCESSING and maximum-security private
PENITENTIARY SYSTEMS.

5. Timberland in any area for LOGGING, OPEN-PIT LEACH

MINING, and SUB-DIVISION.

I am a land speculator originally from Southern California. My
team and I can match your property with aforementioned
businesses for FAST PROFIT. As Measure 37 can eliminate ALL
zoning, we are interested in any property, regardless of current
zoning, proximity to schools, or environmental safeguards.

Oregon residential areas offer prime targets for development of
exciting “in-neighborhood” businesses, including retail, adult,
small-scale industrial, and gaming & gambling. Measure 37 may
open up all residential areas to such profitable ventures.

PLEASE CONTACT US ASAP AS THIS IS A LIMITED TIME
OFFER. IT IS NECESSARY TO ACT BEFORE THE MONEY
RUNS OUT - TAXPAYERS MUST FOOT THE BILL TO PAY OFF
CLAIMANTS TO ABIDE TO LOCAL ZONING. THIS WILL COST
100s OF MILLIONS ANNUALLY (AND THIS IS WHERE WE WILL
GET OUR MONEY!)

MEASURE 37: GET YOURS WHILE THE GETTING’S GOOD!

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
118 | Statewide Measures

http://www.GetRichQuickWithMeasure37.com
http://www.GetRichQuickWithMeasure37.com
http://www.GetRichQuickWithMeasure37.com

(This information furnished by Peter Bray.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

Ballot Measure 37 is complex. Do not be deceived by the
concept of compensation. Everyone wants government to com-
pensate for its actions in some manner. But there are some key
points in this proposal that cause us to ask for your NO vote.

It reaches back at least three generations and requires the cur-
rent owner to determine what, if any, land use restrictions were
in place when grandpa and grandma acquired the property. Is it
even possible to go back to the early 1900’s and know what
land use restrictions existed? Many counties and cities do not
have records that far back. It is wrong to try to go back to past
generations. Yet this measure clearly defines family members of
current owners and allows the current owner to go back to what
was in place when their grandparents acquired the land and it
has stayed in the family.

It requires the Oregon government entity to pay for loss of land
value because of the restrictions they place on the land, unless
they simply remove the restrictions. There is no funding pro-
vided, or mechanism for finding funding. With no money to pay
the compensation, the only recourse the government entity has
is to remove the restriction. So an owner can put a development
on the land that is clearly not compatible with surrounding land
uses, creating a hodgepodge of land use that Oregonians have
tried to avoid with the concept of land use planning.
Remember also that many land use restrictions come from
Federal regulations and are not affected by this measure.
The primary loss to Oregon would be farmland, forestland and
open space. Currently limited in use, that protection disappears
as counties are unable to compensate when the current owner
wants to subdivide into small parcels and put buildings on the
parcels that could have been done a hundred years ago.

(This information furnished by Fritz Ellett, Hood River County Farm
Bureau, Wasco County Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

County Farm Bureaus Oppose Measure 37

We represent hundreds of family farmers throughout Oregon
who are opposed to Measure 37.
Why?

Because Measure 37 is so poorly written it will put many farmers
out of business by increasing taxes and rolling back the safe-
guards that protect Oregon’s farmland from overdevelopment.
As farmers, we are property owners who work on the land every
day. We deal with government. and all its processes and proce-
dures, every day. We can’t afford the additional layers of
paperwork, bureaucracy, lawsuits and costs associated with
Measure 37.

Measure 37 is going to make it harder for farmers to farm and
more difficult for Oregonians to protect farmland from over-
development.
Please join us in voting No on Measure 37.
Benton County Farm Bureau
Clackamas County Farm Bureau
Grant County Farm Bureau
Hood River County Farm Bureau
Jefferson County Farm Bureau
Lane County Farm Bureau
Linn County Farm Bureau

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
119 | Statewide Measures

Marion County Farm Bureau
Polk County Farm Bureau
Tillamook County Farm Bureau
Wasco County Farm Bureau
Washington County Farm Bureau
Yamhill County Farm Bureau

(This information furnished by Larry Wells, Marion County Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Protect Private Property Rights

Vote NO on Measure 37

Homeowners from across Oregon oppose Measure 37

The single most important investment many of us ever make is
buying a home. For us, our home and property are the most
valuable things we own.
But what will happen to your home or your property when
government can change the regulations and rules as they go
along?

Measure 37 is so poorly written that it allows government to
decide one thing for your neighbor’s property and something
totally different for yours.
And that’s just wrong. Treating homeowners and property
owners fairly is the foundation of our country.
What’s more, Measure 37 will eliminate any notice requirement
to neighbors if government decides to allow some property
owners to tear down, rebuild, or develop their property. That’s
not fair either.
What’s worse? While Measure 37 creates inequities for home
and property owners, and removes notice provisions, it adds
more layers of government administration and red tape.

The Secretary of State, Director of Revenue, Treasurer and
Director of Administrative Services issued a Financial Impact
Statement that concluded Measure 37 will cost as much as
$344 million annually, just for administration. That’s before a
single property owner sees a dime.
And who’s going to pay for it when the measure itself provides
no new revenue?
We are. Homeowners, property owners and taxpayers. That’s
just not fair.

(This information furnished by Morgan Allen, No on 37 - Take A Closer
Look Committee.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Small and Locally Owned Businesses
Urge you to Vote “NO” on Measure 37

All across Oregon, small and locally owned businesses are
struggling to recover from our recent economic downturn. And
Oregon’s economy still faces many challenges. The last thing
we need is more uncertainty, more costs, and more hurdles that
make it harder for our companies to do business.

If Measure 37 passes it will have serious consequences for every
Oregon business.

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

• Measure 37 will create new layers of red tape at every

level of government

This measure is so complex and vague that it will require a new
layer of government regulation and even more steps to get
approval of basic things like building permits. More bureaucracy
makes it tougher to do business in Oregon.

• Measure 37 will cost taxpayers and businesses up to

$344 million dollars a year just to pay for the new
paperwork, procedures and processes that this
measure mandates

And no one knows what the final price tag will be. The state’s
own financial impact statement concludes that the final cost to
businesses and taxpayers cannot be determined.

• Measure 37 provides no new revenues to pay for all this

administration and bureaucracy

Measure 37 will cost Oregon taxpayers and businesses too
much by creating too many processes and procedures. More
costs, more red tape, and more bureaucracy will discourage
businesses from locating in Oregon.

Support your locally owned businesses and

vote “NO” on Measure 37

BOORA Architects
Portland

Carter MacNichol
Sheils Obletz Johnsen
Portland

Tillamook County Creamery Association

Mike Hollern
Brooks Resources
Bend

Mike Roach and Kim Osgood,
Co-Owners
Paloma Clothing
Portland

Colleen French

Kurt Schrader
Clackamas County Veterinary Clinic Ozone Café
Oregon City
Lynn Lundquist
BarLynn Ranch
Powell Butte

Portland
Shannon Rose
Realtor
Washington County

Susan Sokol Blosser
Sokol Blosser Winery
Dundee
Stan Amy
New Villages Group
Portland

Betsy Imholt
Time and Space Consulting
Aurora

Sean Cruz
Real Estate Broker
Portland
Lonn Hoklin
Suasion
Tigard

(This information furnished by Mike Roach, Co-Owner, Paloma Clothing.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Governor Ted Kulongoski (Democrat)

& Former Governor Victor Atiyeh (Republican) both agree:

“Measure 37 is Wrong for Oregon.”

For over forty years we’ve watched Oregon grow and change.
We’ve seen ballot measures that make Oregon a better place,
and ballot measures that hurt Oregon.
Measure 37 will hurt Oregon.

Measure 37 has a simple but misleading ballot title. It implies it
will protect property rights, but in reality it offers no guarantees

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
120 | Statewide Measures

for property owners. It provides only one guarantee – new
administrative procedures and more paperwork for property
owners. The last thing Oregonians need is more useless, time-
consuming and costly government rules and regulations. As
Governors during some of Oregon’s toughest economic times,
we know first hand the costs of red tape and unnecessary
paperwork.
Measure 37 is so full of fine print, and so poorly written, that the
Secretary of State’s financial impact statement says it could cost
up to $344 million a year for new local and state government
paperwork and administration – and that’s before a single prop-
erty owner sees a dime.

Where will the money come from?
The measure summary itself “provides no new revenue.”

We know from experience that to create more jobs and protect
our quality of life, we need a government that works. Oregon’s
Attorney General has already warned that this initiative is full of
“uncertainty,” with several areas of “significant dispute.”
(Department of Justice memorandum, July 19, 2004.)
As Governors, we are very concerned that Measure 37 will
paralyze permit processes, tie up our legal system and cost you
money.

Please join us in voting NO on Measure 37.
Governor Ted Kulongoski
Democrat

Former Governor Victor Atiyeh
Republican

(This information furnished by Governor Ted Kulongoski.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

ESTIMATED COST TO TAXPAYERS

Measure 37 will cost taxpayers up to $344 million per year to
administer.

“The measure would require state administrative expendi-
tures to respond to claims for compensation of between
$18 million and $44 million per year.
The measure may require compensation to landowners.
The amount of state expenditures needed to pay claims for
compensation cannot be determined…

The measure would require local government administrative
expenditures to respond to claims for compensation of
between $46 million and $300 million per year.
The measure may require compensation to landowners.
The amount of local government expenditures needed to
pay claims for compensation cannot be determined…”

Estimate of Financial Impact, July 22, 2004
As Oregon’s state auditor and chief financial officer, we serve on
the Financial Impact Committee that researched the costs of
Measure 37. Please consider the costs to taxpayers when voting
on Measure 37.
Bill Bradbury
Oregon Secretary of State
Fiscal Impact Committee
member

Randall Edwards
Oregon State Treasurer
Fiscal Impact Committee
member

(This information furnished by Bill Bradbury, Oregon Secretary of State.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

Former Oregon Judges

Urge Voters To Take A Closer Cook At Measure 37

As former judges we know first hand how a poorly written and
complicated measure can lead to lawsuits, uncertainty and
increased costs.
Measure 37 is just too complex and vague. Under this measure
the government gets to choose who gets paid and who does
not. The measure doesn’t say how government will make those
decisions, who in government will make them, or that govern-
ment must make the same decision for all property owners.
If this measure becomes law, government could decide one
thing for your neighbor’s property and something totally
different for yours.
Measure 37 will cause endless lawsuits, paralyze local govern-
ment permit processes, and tie up our court system. All of which
will increase costs to taxpayers.

We urge your “No” vote on Measure 37.
Betty Roberts
Justice
Oregon Supreme Court
1982-1986
Jacob Tanzer
Justice
Oregon Supreme Court
1980-1983
William L. Richardson
Chief Judge & Judge
Oregon Court of Appeals
1978-1997

(This information furnished by Jacob Tanzer.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

THE LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS OF

OREGON OPPOSES MEASURE 37

MEASURE 37 IS NOT IN THE

PUBLIC INTEREST

This measure forces state and local governments to make a
choice they shouldn’t have to make. Either pay landowners to
comply with current regulations and processes that protect our
neighborhoods, farmland, wildlife, and open space, OR allow
landowners to violate those regulations. TAXPAYERS LOSE
EITHER WAY.

MEASURE 37 WILL LEAD TO

NON-ENFORCEMENT OF LAND-USE LAWS

Oregon’s land-use system has been regarded as a model across
the country for over thirty years. We only have to look at the
uncontrolled development in other states to appreciate what this
legacy has meant to our quality of life. As Oregonians we care
deeply about managing growth, planning for development, pre-
serving rural lands, and protecting our scenic vistas. Because
Measure 37 will undoubtedly lead to non-enforcement of our
land-use laws, it seeks to undo all that we have accomplished,
and we become one of those “other” states. LAND USE REGU-
LATION PRESERVES OREGON FOR ALL OREGONIANS.

WE CAN’T AFFORD IT

To deal with possible claims, Measure 37 will require new
processes, procedures and paperwork for every governmental

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
121 | Statewide Measures

entity in the state. The Financial Impact Statement estimates
that Measure 37 will result in direct administrative costs of up to
$344 million per year even before paying a single claim. With
budgets so tight, do we really want to make additional cuts in
schools and services to add more bureaucracy to our
government?

The League of Women Voters of Oregon
urges you to VOTE NO on Measure 37.
PROTECT OUR POCKETBOOKS AND

OREGON’S LIVEABILITY.

(This information furnished by Margaret Noel, President, League of
Women Voters of Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon Farmers & Nursery Owners

Oppose Measure 37

We are property owners from all over Oregon who depend on
the land for our livelihood. Our land is our single greatest invest-
ment – our families, workers, and Oregon’s economy rely on us.
Measure 37 threatens our property.

How?
Measure 37 is so poorly written it will allow government to
decide one thing for your neighbor’s property and something
totally different for yours. That means one thing – lawsuits. As
farmers and nursery owners we cannot afford stalled permit
processes, uncertainty and years of litigation. We believe
Measure 37 will put some farmers and nursery owners out of
business.

More troubling is the fact that no one knows the total cost of
Measure 37. The financial impact statement estimates it could
cost up to $344 million a year just for new local and state gov-
ernment paperwork and administration. And, that’s before a
single lawsuit.
But one thing is clear, Measure 37 provides no new revenue.

In today’s world farmers and nursery owners need predictability
and certainty. Measure 37 is costly, confusing, and full of
uncertainty.
We urge you to vote NO on Measure 37.

Oregon Agricultural Alliance

(This information furnished by Scott Ashcom, Oregon Agricultural
Alliance.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGON SENIORS ARE VOTING NO ON 37

Too Much New Government, Too Many New Costs

One of the ways you can tell good ideas from bad ideas or, in
this case, good public policy from bad public policy, is to look
first at the facts, and then at who comes to the table in support
or opposition to a measure.

The facts in this case are pretty clear. The state fiscal impact
analysis says Measure 37 will cost up to $344 million a year just
in layers of new government, and nobody can tell how much it

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

will cost in the end.
Money’s already too tight and services are already stretched
too thin. The last thing we need is more costs to taxpayers and
more layers of government standing between people and the
services they need, and deserve, from our government.
Measure 37 is a bad idea.

It costs too much, creates too many layers of new government
and will lead to too many lawsuits.

We ask Oregonians to join thousands of seniors in

Voting NO on 37.

Gray Panthers

Oregon Alliance for Retired Americans
Oregon Association for Retired Citizens

(This information furnished by James Davis, Oregon Association for
Retired Citizens, Gray Panthers.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATIONS OPPOSE MEASURE 37

It’s costly, complex and unfair

We are a coalition of 20 neighborhood associations.
We oppose Measure 37 because it will cost taxpayers $344
million in administrative costs alone. We oppose creating
more government processes, procedures and paperwork. We
oppose putting the interests of a few large landowners over the
values of fairness and citizen involvement. We oppose making
taxpayers pay others to obey the laws we all live by.
Measure 37 does nothing to protect neighbors from the
harmful effects of development. In fact, if Measure 37 passes
government will no longer be required to provide notice to
neighbors before certain property owners build something that
doesn’t comply with current land use and zoning requirements.
Measure 37 will undermine our right to participate in local
decisions that affect our neighborhoods. We have worked
hard for over 35 years to ensure that citizens have a voice in
decisions about development. Citizen participation is meaning-
less if governments can arbitrarily choose to waive quality-of-life
protections. Measure 37 is so poorly written that it would be
bottled up in the courts for years while our property values
hang in the balance. With money so tight, we can’t afford it.
Join us in saying NO to this unworkable measure and say yes to
citizen involvement, accountable government, and protections
for our quality of life.

WE URGE YOU TO VOTE NO ON 37!

Southeast UPLIFT Neighborhood Program
Linda Nettekoven, Co-Chair
Southeast UPLIFT Neighborhood Program,
Scott Vala, Co-Chair
Brentwood-Darlington Neighborhood Association

Sunnyside Neighborhood Association
Aaron Ernst, Chair

Buckman Community Association
Susan Lindsay, Chair

Center Neighborhood Association
Mt. Scott-Arleta Neighborhood Association
Jim Williams, Chair

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
122 | Statewide Measures

Southeast Uplift Neighborhood Program
Land Use and Transportation Committee
Paul Loney, Chair
Brooklyn Action Corps
Emily McKinnon, Chair
Creston-Kenilworth Neighborhood Association,
Benjamin Hazelton, Chair

(This information furnished by Linda Nettekoven, Southeast UPLIFT
Neighborhood Program.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon Recreation & Park Association

Opposes Measure 37

The Oregon Recreation & Park Association (ORPA) strongly
opposes Measure 37. ORPA is an organization with over 650
professional members, citizens and community advocates that
provide park and recreation services throughout Oregon.
ORPA opposes Measure 37 for the following reasons:

1. Measure 37 is poorly written and consequently taxpayers

will have to pay costly legal fees to clarify its meaning
through the courts.

2. The state’s own fiscal impact statement says Measure 37

will cost taxpayers up to $344 million annually, just to
process the new bureaucracy and paperwork required by
Measure 37.

3. In addition, based on how Measure 37 is written, no one
knows what the cost will be to taxpayers to fully imple-
ment it.

4. Measure 37 provides no new revenue to pay for the costs
to taxpayers, thereby, increasing the tax burden on Oregon
citizens.

5. Measure 37 severely limits the ability of local communi-

ties to acquire land for public park development by
artificially driving up the price of land and draining local
budgets.

Measure 37 will harm public parks and recreation services
throughout the state. The severe budget impact caused by
Measure 37 would seriously limit local citizens’ ability to make
decisions about their own community. It will take the important
decisions about community park and recreation services from
citizens and give the decision-making power to costly attorneys.

Protect Oregon’s Public Parks

Vote NO on Measure 37

Oregon Recreation & Park Association

(This information furnished by Frank Jagodnik, Executive Director, Oregon
Recreation and Park Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Local Community Leaders Oppose Measure 37

As Mayors, we’re responsible for the day-to-day details of
making government work for you. We work to keep your com-
munities healthy and safe, with family wage jobs, good schools

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

and affordable housing.
Measure 37 will make it tougher to do our job.

Why? It’s pretty simple. According to the financial impact state-
ment done by the State of Oregon, Measure 37 will cost up to
$344 million annually in paperwork and administrative
expenses for governments around the state. And there may be
other costs that cannot be determined. So no one knows the
total cost of this measure.

Where will the money come from? Measure 37 “provides no new
revenue source for payments.” With budgets so tight already, we
can’t afford Measure 37.
Please join us in voting No on Measure 37.

too precious to put at risk. Working together, we can continue to
make craft a land use program that meets the needs of all
Oregonians.
Thank you for taking a careful look. I hope you will join me in
voting No on 37.

Earl Blumenauer

(This information furnished by Congressman Earl Blumenauer.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Alan W. DeBoer, Mayor of Ashland
Rob Drake, Mayor, City of Beaverton
Helen Berg, Mayor of Corvallis
Jim Fairchild, Mayor of Dallas
Richard Kidd, Mayor of Forest Grove
Charles Becker, Mayor of Gresham
Eugene Grant, Mayor Happy Valley
Tom Hughes, Mayor of Hillsboro
Jim Lewis, Mayor, City of Jacksonville
Todd Kellstrom, Mayor of Klamath Falls
Judie Hammerstad, Mayor, City of Lake Oswego
Lindsey Berryman, Mayor of Medford
Lori Hollingsworth, Mayor of Lincoln City
Alice Norris, Mayor of Oregon City
Vera Katz, Mayor of Portland
Linda Malone, Mayor of Sandy
Ken Hector, Mayor of Silverton
David Dodds, Mayor of West Linn
Charlotte Lehan, Mayor of Wilsonville

(This information furnished by Rob Drake.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

As a lifelong Oregonian, I urge you to take a closer look at
Measure 37, its unanswered questions, costs and bureaucracy.
Since Governor Tom McCall appointed me to the Livable Oregon
Commission, I have spent my career working with Oregonians to
protect the quality of life in their neighborhoods as well as
national treasures like the Columbia River Gorge and Mt. Hood.
In Congress, I’ve been privileged to help the federal government
learn from the Oregon experience how to be a better partner
with local communities, working with them to manage special
places and balance growth with private property rights and
environmental protections that benefit us all.

I am proud of the Oregon land use planning program. Since its
inception in 1973, rural and urban Oregonians have worked
closely together to make it better, responding to changing cir-
cumstances and new opportunities. Now, more than thirty years
later, our pioneering land use system remains one of the best in
the United States, attracting world wide attention and praise.

Is it perfect? Are we finished? Absolutely not, because Oregon is
dynamic and growing. But as we work to make our land use
planning program better, we need to do it the Oregon way--
together. What we can’t afford is an expensive, complex, and
bureaucratic fix that creates more problems than it solves.
I urge you to join me in rejecting this poorly-thought-out and
untried proposal. One of the lessons we’ve learned over the past
thirty years is that we need to make changes carefully, know
what we are doing, and understand what the outcomes will be.
Our homes, our businesses and our special places are simply

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
123 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Opposition

Dear Oregon Taxpayer,
My name is Pete Sorenson, an elected Lane County
Commissioner. I grew up in Coos County, graduated from the
University of Oregon, ran a private law firm, and served as an
elected Oregon State Senator. As a County Commissioner, I
am deeply involved in the administration of Oregon’s land
use laws. These laws, some of the most progressive in the
United States, are crucial to maintaining our environment
and high quality of life. It is from my experience working
with these laws as a former practicing attorney and as a
former State Senator, that I oppose this ballot measure.
Passing this measure will cost Oregon taxpayers money and
hurt farmers. To comply with the measure it will cost Oregon tax-
payers up to $344 million annually. These costs will result from
increased government employees to research and process
claims and from increased costs of litigation.

This measure provides no new sources of revenue to pay for the
land. Because this ballot measure does not provide revenue,
cities and counties will be forced to make cuts in places like law
enforcement, drug rehabilitation, and education. With the recent
cutbacks to local and state budgets, we cannot afford these
cuts.

This measure means more litigation and lawsuits. The Attorney
General’s office has warned of “uncertainties” and ambiguities in
the bill. These “uncertainties” mean more lawsuits that will cost
the public money and time that could be spent in other more
productive ways.
Passing measure 37 means more taxes, more red tape, and
more lawsuits. Please join me in voting NO on Measure 37.
Thank you,
Pete Sorenson
PS - If you have any questions about the seriousness of this
measure and why I oppose it, please contact me PO Box 10836,
Eugene, Oregon 97440 or by calling me at (541) 485-6726 or by
sending me an email at sorenson2004@juno.com

(This information furnished by Peter Sorenson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

VOTE NO ON MEASURE 37
The American Institute of Architects Oregon Chapter is made up
of individuals from throughout the state who depend on devel-
opment and construction. We believe that measure 37 is an
attack on the orderly development that is important for the
quality of life enjoyed by Oregonians.

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

MEASURE 37 WILL DISCOURAGE INVESTMENT IN OREGON
Taxpayers can’t afford the potential costs imposed by measure
37, and the alternative under 37 is to “forgo enforcement” of our
land use regulations. A business needs to know that investment
in a new factory or office will be secure before that investment
will be made. Our land use regulations provide this security;
measure 37 takes it away.
MEASURE 37 WILL UNDERMINE HOME AND NEIGHBORHOOD
VALUES
Our land use regulations provide stability for home values and
neighborhood livability. Investment in home and neighborhood
improvement will be discouraged if one property owner can
decrease neighbors’ property values by turning a home into a
commercial use. Would anyone pay you as much for your home
if your neighbor could decide next week to sell used cars in the
front yard?

MEASURE 37 IS UNFAIR AND DECEPTIVE
Economic windfalls will go to a few large landowners while tax-
payers foot the bill and face uncertainty in the value of their
homes, neighborhoods and businesses. Large timber, mining
and development interests will be released from protecting the
environment while the rest of us face higher taxes, instability and
uncertainty.
MAINTAIN THE VISION THAT MAKES OREGON SPECIAL

The citizens of Oregon have worked for many years for orderly
development that protects the livability of our neighborhoods
and safeguards citizens’ investments in property. We can con-
tinue to improve land use regulation to serve the citizens of
Oregon without using Measure 37 like a wrecking ball that would
also demolish everything good about our land use regulations.

PLEASE JOIN US TO VOTE NO ON MEASURE 37
American Institute of Architects Oregon Chapter

(This information furnished by Jonathan Stafford, 2004 President,
American Institute of Architects Oregon Chapter.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon’s Wineries and Grapegrowers
Urge Oregonians to Reject Measure 37

Our story is a true Oregon success story. Oregon’s farmland
preservation laws have helped to protect the land we rely on to
grow, make, and market some of the world’s best wines. Oregon
wines are now recognized and respected around the world, and
tourists come to visit us, taste our wines, and enjoy the beauty
of our state. We’ve created an industry that employs thousands
of Oregonians and pumps millions of dollars into our state and
local economies.

You don’t have to be a wine drinker to appreciate the economic
contributions the wine industry brings to our state.

But Ballot Measure 37 is a direct threat to the livelihood of
grapegrowers, wineries and farms throughout Oregon.

Measure 37 jeopardizes our land, our industry,

and puts thousands of jobs at-risk

Measure 37 creates unnecessary procedures and processes
and will give government the choice of eliminating farmland
protections. State and local government will need to create new
procedures to process claims and research development stan-
dards that existed on land going back more than 50 years.

Measure 37 will lead to more lawsuits and litigation. There
are no limits to the number of claims and lawsuits that can be
filed under Measure 37. Our businesses and our lands can’t
afford more legal uncertainties and ambiguities.
Measure 37 puts our economic success story at risk.
Oregon’s wine industry has helped create good paying jobs
throughout Oregon. We’re proud of our contribution to our state
and local economies. But Measure 37 will make it more difficult
for us to do business and continue supporting Oregon’s eco-
nomic recovery.

Help preserve “vintage” years for Oregon’s

farmlands and economy

Please join us in voting “NO” on 37

David Adelsheim
Adelsheim Vineyard

Michael Etzel
Beaux Freres Winery

Dick and Nancy Ponzi
Ponzi Vineyards

Doug Tunnell, Proprietor
Brickhouse Vineyards

Harry Peterson-Nedry
Chehalem

Eric Lemelson
Lemelson Vineyards

Eyrie Vineyard

Oregon Winegrowers Association

(This information furnished by Eric Lemelson, Lemelson Vineyards.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

TEACHERS, PARENTS, AND SCHOOL SUPPORTERS

OPPOSE MEASURE 37

With Money So Tight Already, What’s Going to Happen to
Education?
We’ve all seen the unfortunate headlines about shortened school
years and districts closing days and even weeks early. Our
public schools have suffered staff reductions and program cuts
across the board. As teachers, parents, and school supporters
we have seen the devastating impacts these cuts have on our
students and in our classrooms.
Measure 37 costs too much, will force more cuts to education,
and takes needed resources out of our classrooms. Our schools
and our students can’t succeed with fewer school days and less
money.

• Measure 37 will drain badly needed resources from

our schools

We need our tax dollars to go directly into the classroom. We
don’t need more paperwork and processes that have nothing to
do with educating Oregon’s children. If Measure 37 passes, it
will cost taxpayers up to $344 million dollars a year and put
Oregon’s schools at risk for another round of budget cuts.

• Measure 37 creates more uncertainty and instability

for schools

The last thing our schools need is more uncertainty. Oregon’s
schools need stability and every child in Oregon deserves a full
school year and reasonable class sizes. Measure 37 jeopardizes
our ability to provide a quality education for Oregon’s children.

• Measure 37 will lead to more lawsuits and litigation

No one can say how much Measure 37 will cost in the long run.
But it will lead to more litigation and lawsuits. That’s money that
will have to come out of other budgets like public education.
The schoolchildren of Oregon will get shortchanged…again.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
124 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

Measure 37 costs too much and it’s just too risky

for education.

Argument in Opposition

Vote NO on Measure 37.

Oregon Education Association

American Federation of Teachers—Oregon

Oregon PTA

Coalition for School Funding Now

(This information furnished by Chris Coughlin.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon’s Conservation Community Opposes Measure 37
Measure 37 is a costly bureaucratic can of worms that will
drain Oregon’s precious tax dollars at a time we can least
afford it.
Measure 37 also threatens Oregon’s Conservation Legacy
For thirty years, Oregon has built a legacy of using land use
safeguards to protect farmland from overdevelopment. We have
promoted responsible growth in our cities, while making sure
Oregon’s prime farmland continues to grow food and crops –
helping the economy and environment at the same time.
This measure is a sneaky way to roll back those safeguards
for the benefit of a few.

How? By making it impossibly expensive for the state and cities
to maintain farmland zoning.
Read the fine print. Measure 37 allows for claims based on
regulations passed decades ago, so up to one-half of our
prime farmland could see claims. Unless taxpayers come up
with hundreds of millions of dollars – or more – we’d see strip
malls and big box stores sprouting from our farmland instead of
the crops that feed us.
And the measure offers no standards, so government could
decide one thing for your neighbor’s property and something
totally different for yours. Big corporations and special inter-
ests would see the benefit, while ordinary taxpayers would pay
the bill.
Of course, even if we let our farmland get paved over, this meas-
ure will still cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars just for
all the administrative costs, bureaucracy, and lawsuits it would
trigger to figure out who’s owed what, going back decades.
That’s why conservation groups have joined with farmers,
businesses, and unions to oppose Measure 37. Join us in
voting NO.

The Trust for Public Land
Friends of the Columbia Gorge
Oregon Environmental Council
Coalition for a Livable Future
Oregon Council Trout Unlimited
Oregon League of Conservation Voters
Oregon Shores Conservation Coalition
Oregon State Public Interest Research Group (OSPIRG)
Sierra Club
Tualatin Riverkeepers

(This information furnished by Jonathan Poisner, Executive Director,
Oregon League of Conservation Voters.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
125 | Statewide Measures

AMERICAN FARMLAND TRUST OPPOSES MEASURE 37

Measure 37 Would be Costly and Unfair

American Farmland Trust works in Oregon and across the c o u n-
try to protect agricultural lands and to support their management
in a way that is friendly to the environment. We oppose Measure
37 because:
• Measure 37 creates uncertainty and litigation over land

use issues that will make it ever more difficult for farmers
to buy and own land.

• Measure 37 will result in unfair and uneven application of the
land use laws that will fragment our agricultural communities
and make farming more difficult and less profitable.

• Measure 37 undermines Oregon’s laws that protect farmland

from overdevelopment, and thereby threatens Oregon’s
agricultural heritage.

• Measure 37 creates government bureaucracy and red tape

that will result in increased taxes making it even more
difficult for farmers to stay in business.

If Measure 37 becomes law, small family farms in Oregon will
suffer. It will become more difficult for new farmers to enter the
farming business. A few large, wealthy land-rich farmers who
can work the system and hire lawyers might benefit in the short-
term by selling off their holdings for development or taking
advantage of Oregon taxpayers. But most smaller family farms
will suffer. The long-term impact will be to destroy Oregon’s
wonderful agricultural economy

Please Vote NO on Measure 37

American Farmland Trust

(This information furnished by Don Stuart, American Farmland Trust.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGON NURSERY OWNERS AND OPERATORS

OPPOSE MEASURE 37

As owners and operators of nurseries, we urge you to VOTE
NO ON MEASURE 37 so our industry can continue to thrive
and provide jobs for Oregonians.
Nurseries in Oregon are mostly small, owner-operated firms,
but our industry is making a big contribution to our state’s
prosperity. Oregon’s fast growing nursery industry is now the
l a rgest contributor to our state’s $3.5 billion agricultural economy.
In 2002 Oregon trailed only California and Florida in total
horticultural production, with a record $727 million in sales – 
the 12th straight year of increased sales.

Unlike many other agricultural commodities, most of Oregon’s
nursery products are grown in counties that also have large
urban populations. The top five nursery producing counties in
the state are Marion, Clackamas, Washington, Yamhill and
Multnomah Counties.
By protecting our industry’s land base from uncontrolled urban
sprawl, Oregon’s land use and farmland protection laws have
enabled nurseries to flourish, even in the face of rapid popula-
tion growth. These laws have been essential to maintaining the
basic livelihood of thousands of Oregonians who earn their living
in nurseries and other agricultural operations.

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

MEASURE 37 WOULD HARM OREGON’S NURSERIES
Measure 37 hurts nursery operators and taxpayers by creating
layers and layers of new government processes and procedures
and rolling back the safeguards that protect Oregon nursery land
from over-development. That’s why nursery owners and oper-
ators from across the state urge Oregonians to Vote No on
Measure 37.
Alice Doyle and Greg Lee
Log House Plants
Cottage Grove

Bob Iwasaki
Nurseryman
Washington County

Rod Park
Park’s Nursery
Gresham
Egan Gardens
Salem

Blooming Nursery
Washington County

(This information furnished by Rod Park, Park’s Nursery.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGON CHAPTERS OF THE AUDUBON SOCIETY

URGE YOU TO VOTE NO ON MEASURE 37

Should Oregon Taxpayers Pay Millions of Dollars to Create
New Government Bureaucracy Required By a Measure that
Guarantees Uncertainty and Litigation?

Ballot Measure 37 will cost as much as $344 million annually,
just for state and local governments to set up and operate the
program, according to a financial impact analysis conducted by
the Oregon Secretary of State, Treasurer and Directors of State
Revenue and Administrative Services.
While threatening laws and regulations that protect rivers,
wetlands, forests and wildlife, the measure seems bound to
generate only uncertainty. The state Attorney General’s Office,
for example is concerned that the measure will generate legal
ambiguities, uncertainty and several areas of significant dispute.
(Department of Justice memorandum, July 19, 2004).
The best that anyone can say about the effect of this measure is
“no one can say.”

• Effect on land outside the UGB?
• Impact on established single-family neighborhoods?
• Ability of governments to pay to waive existing zoning

regulations?

NO ONE CAN SAY FOR SURE!

If Measure 37 passes, we lose our ability to keep our communi-
ties good places to live--for both wildlife and people.

WE URGE YOU TO VOTE NO ON MEASURE 37

Audubon Society of Portland
Audubon Society of Corvallis
Kalmiopsis Audubon Society
Lane County Audubon Society
Salem Audubon Society
Rogue Valley Audubon Society

(This information furnished by Meryl Redisch, Audubon Society of
Portland.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Polk & Yamhill County Farm Bureaus Say “Vote No On 37”

If everyone in Oregon lived on a farm in beautiful Polk or Yamhill
County Measure 37 would be easily voted down. In 2003, Polk
County farmers sold their crops for $119 million and Yamhill
even more – $225 million, generating these counties’ largest
source of private sector income. Farmers spent this income in
the community to meet payrolls and pay taxes, and to buy
trucks, farm equipment, fuel, seed, supplies, insurance, medical
services, groceries, etc., etc. Measure 37 threatens this annual,
countywide flow of dollars and the way of life and magnificent
countryside that goes along with profitable farming.
Farmers need good soil, good sense, capital, hard work and
luck. But farmers also need supportive laws. For 28 years
Oregon has had two laws – farm use zoning and special assess-
ment taxation – that strongly support farming. Besides
generating costs and bureaucratic red tape for all Oregonians,
Measure 37 will ruin these two crucially important farm laws.
Measure 37’s talk about compensation is just a “come on” to
fool voters into forcing counties to open up rich farmland to
speculators and developers, even if a decline in farming would
hurt everyone else. Counties don’t have the money or the incli-
nation to pay compensation. In either case, Measure 37 requires
counties to weaken farmland protections and would be very
detrimental to Oregon agriculture.

Please join us in voting “No” on Measure 37.
Dean Freeborn, President
Polk County Farm Bureau
Rickreall

Dave Cruickshank, President
Yamhill County Farm Bureau
McMinnville

(This information furnished by Dean Freeborn, President, Polk County
Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

LINN COUNTY FARM BUREAU OPPOSES MEASURE 37

Overall it will be bad law for family agriculture in Oregon and for
Oregonians who have demonstrated that they prefer Oregon
produced agricultural products.
Measure 37 would require compensation for land use regulations
that restrict the use of private real property but provides no
funding for that compensation. Governmental bodies faced with
a compensation demand can opt out of applying the established
land use laws to placate that demand. That is just what will
happen.
Measure 37 is not about compensation, it is about severely
degrading thirty years of relative stability for Oregon agriculture.
Oregon agriculture requires a stable land base. Measure 37 will
destabilize that foundation. Commercial agriculture will be reluc-
tant to commit the money, time, and equipment to continue
creating food and fiber without the expectation that they will not
have to deal with the problems generated by non-resource
demands in resource zones.
Agriculture is more than just yearly crops. It is a multi-generation
commitment. Measure 37 destroys the stability that nurtures this
commitment.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
126 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

VOTE NO ON MEASURE 37

LINN COUNTY FARM BUREAU

Dan Thackaberry, President
Lebanon

(This information furnished by Dan Thackaberry, Linn County Farm
Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon Family Farms Oppose Measure #37

As family farmers and ranchers from every corner of Oregon, we
respectfully ask our fellow Oregonians to VOTE NO ON Measure
#37 to protect Oregon’s farm, ranch and forest land.

Jim Monroe
Sheep, Timber
Linn County
Kenagy Family Farm, Inc.
Benton County

Judson Parsons
Timber, Hay, Grain
Jackson County
Diana Gardener
Hardwoods
Marion County

David Vanasche, Owner
Vanasche Farm
Washington County
J & T Farms
Vegetable Seed, Grass Seed, Hay
Grain, Horse Stables
Marion County
Larry Pearmine
Vegetable Crops, Grass Seed, Cherries Onion & Carrot Seed
Marion County

Jim and Margaret Wood
Cattle, Horses, Timber
Crook County
Richard Holcomb
Cattle, Timber
Douglas County

Gary L. Harris

Jefferson County

(This information furnished by Jim Wood.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The Human Services Coalition of Oregon

Urges a NO Vote on Measure 37

A weak economy has hurt a lot of children and families in
Oregon:

• Working parents can barely afford health care and child

care.

• Food pantries and soup kitchens are maxed out.
• Fewer services and programs are available for mental and

chemical dependency treatment.

• Our most vulnerable citizens, the elderly and disabled, are

stretched to the breaking point.

The Human Services Coalition of Oregon includes hundreds of
human services providers, associations, county agencies and
individuals working together to ensure the very basic needs of
Oregon’s poorest and most vulnerable residents are met.
We have studied Measure 37 and believe it is a bad deal for
Oregon:

• Measure 37 creates unnecessary government bureau-

cracy and red-tape.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
127 | Statewide Measures

• Measure 37 will mean more cuts for important health

care programs, senior services, tobacco prevention and
other critical services.

• Measure 37 will cost Oregon taxpayers and businesses

up to $344 million dollars a year just to pay for new
processes and paperwork.

It’s time to make Oregon the great place we know it can be. But
we can’t do those things if Measure 37 becomes law.

Please vote ‘No’ on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Phil Donovan, Human Services Coalition of
Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Measure 37 is harmful to our heritage

Oregonians are justifiably proud of our history and heritage.
We’ve worked hard to preserve historic resources in our down-
towns, neighborhoods, and in the rural areas of the state.
However, Measure 37 endangers the ability to preserve and
protect our cultural heritage. That’s why we are opposed to it.
None of us like regulations, and Measure 37 is a regulation of
the worst kind— unnecessary and harmful, wasteful and bureau-
cratic. Put into place, Measure 37 will burden our communities
with extra costs and layers of bureaucracy and leave us nothing
in return.

The tools that now help preserve Oregon’s heritage resources
will be undermined and irreparably harmed if Measure 37 is put
into place. Cherished historic resources that have come to
symbolize the identity of our communities could disappear, only
to be replaced by new construction, developments, parking lots,
and unchecked development. Not only could these irreplaceable
historic resources be eliminated, the livability of our state,
the very reason people live in and visit Oregon, could be
compromised.
Despite what others may say, Measure 37 could actually endan-
ger property values by stripping property owners of longstanding
protections that help preserve our cultural heritage. Existing
zoning protections could be replaced with regulations that allow
uncontrolled sprawl and development, destroying the historic
fabric of our neighborhoods and communities. If enacted, local
governments could be faced with the prospect of either protect-
ing our state’s heritage or paying someone thousands of dollars
not to build a retail superstore in your neighborhood.

Let’s not saddle ourselves with unnecessary and harmful legis-
lation that will compromise Oregon’s irreplaceable cultural
resources and lead to an unstable, uncertain, and costly future.
Join us in voting no on Measure 37.

Michael Teskey, president
Historic Preservation League
of Oregon
www.hplo.org

Stephen Poyser, president
Oregon Preservation Alliance
www.oregonpreservation.org

(This information furnished by Michael Teskey, President, Historic
Preservation League of Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

Measure 37: Harder to Protect the Value of Your Home

Still think this won’t affect you? This measure creates new rules
that say you might not receive any notice and won’t have any
say if the government decides to allow some of your neighbors
to develop their property any way they want. And that’s not fair.

City Club of Portland Opposes Measure 37

The City Club of Portland is a nonprofit organization established
to inform the community of public matters. We strongly oppose
Measure 37 based on past City Club research and recom-
mendations. After 15 months of study by an objective research
committee screened for conflict of interest, members agreed
with their recommendations that certain principles should guide
compensation policies developed through legislative or initiative
processes. Oregon’s planning program is a successful tool for
accomplishing many goals that are in the public’s interest. We
oppose the measure because of the following as expressed in
the original City Club report:

• If a compensation scheme is presented to voters, it should

include a corresponding funding mechanism.

• If government is required to pay compensation to a

property owner, it should acquire an enforceable property-
related right.

• Only losses of value above a certain threshold should be

eligible for compensation.

• Compensation for losses by regulatory takings should be

funded, to the extent practicable, by revenue generated
from property owners who benefit from changes in land use
regulation.

The City Club also recommends that the Governor and
Legislature begin a public process to identify the appropriate
balance between property rights and community interests. They
should use input from this process to work with interested and
affected parties to craft and implement a statutory compensa-
tion program that follows the principles described above.
Measure 37 is inconsistent with the City Club’s principles, partic-
ularly those requiring an adequate funding mechanism. No
funding mechanism is associated with Measure 37. We urge the
people of Oregon to vote No on this costly measure.

(This information furnished by Arnold Cogan, The City Club of Portland.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Measure 37: Another Flawed Initiative

Working Oregonians have faced an incredible burden the past
few years. The highest unemployment rate in the nation, higher
prices for necessities like prescription drugs and gasoline, and
longer hours for less pay. The last thing we need is another
flawed ballot measure that makes it harder for families to get
ahead

Measure 37: The Supreme Court Already Threw Out

a Similar Measure

This measure is flawed and so full of loopholes and fine print
that it will lead to more lawsuits and litigation. Measure 37
will bury the average Oregonian knee deep in red tape and
paperwork.

Measure 37: A Costly Burden For Working Families

Don’t forgot that it will cost up to $344 million dollars a year just
to pay for the paperwork associated with this measure. That’s
money that has to come from somewhere. Public education,
health care, and public safety will face more rollbacks and
reductions if this measure passes. And Oregon families can’t
afford that.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
128 | Statewide Measures

Families Can’t Afford Another Flawed Ballot Measure

Join us and Vote NO on 37

SEIU Local 503, OPEU

www.SEIU503.org

(This information furnished by Arthur Towers, Service Employees
International Union Local 503, OPEU.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY

AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION
AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION

Urge you to Vote “NO” on Measure 37

Measure 37 Will Harm Important Health Programs:
Programs to reduce heart disease, lung disease and cancer will
be harmed by Measure 37, because the measure’s high adminis-
trative costs will force cuts in important public health programs
in Oregon.

Measure 37 creates layers of processes and procedures that will
cost taxpayers money, but the measure “provides no new rev-
enue source for payments.”
Where’s the money going to come from for more than $300
million of administrative costs per year and even more to pay
claims?
Measure 37 Will Cause More Cuts to Basic Services:
State and local agencies will be forced to make severe cuts
across the board. That means:

• More cuts to the Oregon Health Plan
• More cuts to tobacco prevention
• More cuts to senior services
• More cuts to other important public health programs 
ALL just to cover the new costs associated with Measure 37!
Measure 37 Lacks Clarity…Yet Another Measure that Says
One Thing But Does Something Else:
Another problem with Measure 37 is a vague exemption clause
for issues of public health. The clause lacks clarity with regard to
whether protecting workers from the hazards of secondhand
smoke would fall under this exemption.

Under Measure 37, there is the potential that businesses could
file a claim due to state and local clean indoor air regulations.
Case-by-case decisions that businesses are exempt from
smokefree workplace laws would undermine the laws’ effective-
ness and complicate enforcement.

Measure 37 is bad for Public Health and bad for Oregon.

Please Join Us in Voting NO on 37!

American Cancer Society
American Heart Association
American Lung Association

(This information furnished by John Valley, American Heart Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

Oregon Chapter of the American Planning Association

Opposes Measure 37

The Oregon Chapter of the American Planning Association urges
Oregonians to vote No on this measure:

• It will undo farmland protections
• It will take millions of dollars to implement
• The full costs are not known
• No revenue sources are identified
• It is unfair; the new rules will pit neighbor against neighbor,

business owner against business owner

Attorney General Hardy Myers’ office has warned that Measure
37 was fraught with “uncertainty”, and would result in “signifi-
cant disputes” over its effects. (Department of Justice
memorandum, July 19, 2004). We agree. Measure 37 would set
back years of Oregonians’ efforts to protect farmland and
improve housing, transportation, and economic development in
our communities. Passage would be costly and create chaos.
According to official estimates, the uncertainties in this measure
would cost Oregon taxpayers up to $344,000,000 in the first
year alone. This is an assault on Oregonians’ quality of life and
pocketbooks. No new revenue sources are identified to pay for
the cost of administration and according to the state, full costs
“cannot be determined”.
The measure would create new sets of rules – differing for nearly
every property in the state. Measures to protect property values
would be waived or not enforced.
All Oregonians lose if Measure 37 passes. Decisions about
how to use our property will be made by the courts after costly
lawsuits instead of by the people. At a time when resources are
already scarce, Oregon doesn’t need this mess.

The Oregon Chapter of the American Planning Association exists
to protect the legacy of our natural environment, improve the
physical environment, foster social and environmental equity,
and advocate for citizens’ ability to participate. Our more than
800 volunteer and professional planners are dedicated to main-
taining and improving the quality of life in Oregon.

Vote No on Measure 37.

(This information furnished by Robert E. Clay, Oregon Chapter, American
Planning Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

No On 37

It’s Bad for Oregon

It’s Bad for Taxpayers

Oregon’s land use planning laws protect Oregon’s heritage and
strengthen Oregon’s future. Measure 37 is a dangerous threat to
those laws—a threat we can’t afford.
Measure 37 will force communities across Oregon to choose:
either pay developers not to build, or grant exemptions to the
rules the rest of us follow. Either way, the choice will cost tax-
payers dearly.
Worse, it will cost us all millions just for government to investi-
gate claims, establish procedures, and make the decisions
required by this poorly written, ill-conceived measure. The offi-
cial fiscal impact analysis says Measure 37 will cost up to $344
million every year for paperwork alone, before a single claim is
paid.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
129 | Statewide Measures

Measure 37 is a blank check, drawing on the resources of every
town and county in our State. Oregon’s taxpayers can’t afford
that bill. And we can’t afford losing our farm and forest lands,
our spectacular coastline, or our own neighborhoods.

That’s why we’re joining with 1000 Friends of Oregon

to urge you to VOTE NO on MEASURE 37.

Matt Hennessee
CEO, QuikTrak, Inc.
Portland
Henry C. Lorenzen
H & C Lorenzen Farm
Member, State Board of Higher Education
Pendleton
Hector Macpherson
Bannockburn Farms
Oregon State Senator, 1971-75
Albany
Denyse C. McGriff
Board President, 1000 Friends of Oregon
Oregon City

Norma Paulus
Oregon Secretary of State, 1977-85
Portland
Dick Ponzi
Ponzi Vineyards
Gaston

Barbara Roberts
Governor of Oregon, 1991-95
Portland
Homer Williams
Williams & Dame
Portland

(This information furnished by Bob Stacey, Executive Director, 1000
Friends of Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

THE NATURE CONSERVANCY URGES YOU TO

VOTE NO ON MEASURE 37

The Nature Conservancy is a private, non-profit land conserva-
tion organization devoted to protecting important habitats
through land stewardship and cooperative partnerships
IF MEASURE 37 PASSES, THE RESULTS WILL BE:
– YEARS OF UNCERTAINTY
– COMPLEX COURT CASES
– NEW LAYERS OF GOVERNMENT BUREAUCRACY
– UP TO $344 MILLION A YEAR IN COSTS TO TAXPAYERS

Oregon’s natural heritage is at risk. The efforts of thousands of
Oregonians working to save important natural treasures will be
disrupted.
The Nature Conservancy believes strongly in private property
rights. Through the free market we have protected over 175,000
acres at 110 places throughout Oregon.

We support fair and balanced land use planning and habitat
protection laws.
Measure 37 will replace common sense rules protecting fish
and wildlife with cumbersome bureaucracy and red tape.

Oregonians care about protecting our natural resources. Many

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

are hard at work volunteering to restore habitats and conserve
forests, farms and ranches. We’re preserving these natural
treasures in the best Oregon tradition.
Measure 37 will unravel decades of voluntary conservation
work in hundreds of communities across Oregon.
Measure 37 will take conservation decisions out of the
hands of the public and into the hands of the courts.
We can’t take our rich natural heritage for granted. Purchasing
critical parcels for protection, managing important habitats for
fish and wildlife, protecting water quality, restoring rivers and
wetlands, protecting our farms and forests – these are critical
investments we must continue to make for Oregon’s future.
Measure 37 will cost hundreds of millions of dollars, taking
dollars away from schools, health care and public safety.
Oregon’s investments in conservation will be severely
handicapped.

Our board of trustees respectfully urges voters to say NO to
Measure 37.

Russell Hoeflich, Oregon Director
Tom Imeson, Chair, Oregon Board of Trustees
Robert Gootee, Vice Chair
Richard Reiten, Vice Chair
Dolorosa Margulis, Treasurer
Peter McDonald, Secretary
Carter MacNichol, Chair Emeritus

(This information furnished by Russell Hoeflich, Oregon Director, The
Nature Conservancy.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Homeowners Oppose Measure 37
Protect Private Property Rights

What will happen to your home or your property when gov-
ernment can change the regulations and rules as they go
along?
Measure 37 is so poorly written it allows government to decide
one thing for your neighbor’s property and something totally
different for yours.

And that’s just wrong. Treating homeowners and property
owners fairly is the foundation of our country.

Please join us in voting “No” on Measure 37.
Nancy Thompson
176th Court, Beaverton

Shelly Wetherell and
Mike Wetherell
Mode Road, Umpqua

Bob Delong
Summer St. NE, Salem

Marcello Napolitano
SW Borwick Rd, Hillsboro

Mark Tipperman
McIntyre Road, La Grande

David Ausherman
Upper Drive, Portland

William Boyer
Jordan Rd, Sisters

Douglas Holbrook
8th Street, Lincoln City

Ronald A. Buel
Washington Street, Manzanita

David P. Miller
NW Brugger Road, Portland

Liz Frenkel
NW Vista Pl, Corvallis

Kasandra Griffin
SE 34th Avenue, Portland

Laurel Hines
Lake Drive, Salem

Kassetra Stevenson
North Heights Drive, Albany

Argument in Opposition

Camille Hall
Mountain View Drive, Corvallis

James H. Hicks
Mason St, Portland

For goodness sakes, VOTE NO on Measure 37 and help head

off a statewide disaster. If passed into law, this innocent-
appearing measure could disrupt and disorganize the now quiet,
peaceful residential zones by allowing factories and other uses
allowed years ago but are now banned. Property that has been
in the same ownership for many years will be eligible for com-
pensation for the down zoning that has occurred or be allowed
to use the property according to what was allowed at the time of
purchase. There is not enough money in sight to pay off for
downzoning, so the previous right would have to be allowed.
The same is true for the Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) zones.

Sporadic housing and other uses now banned would spring up
in the EFU zones. The only criteria here again for compensation
or change of use is the length of continuous ownership – no
consideration is given for availability of water, type of soil or
drainage. This also could cause a shift in school populations and
create problems for fire protection and police patrol. The final
result would be the destruction of many of the EFU zones right
in the best farming areas.

If passed, this measure would financially benefit a few and
terribly damage many. Our beautiful State of Oregon would be
damaged for lack of organized land use planning that goes
along with civilization. What we have is not perfect, but it is cer-
tainly better than the statewide disaster that the enactment of
Measure 37 into law would cause.

Jack R. Chapin

(This information furnished by Jack R. Chapin.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
130 | Statewide Measures

Julie Sterling
Myrtle Street, Portland

Henry M. Reeves and
Merilyn Reeves
Boulder Creek Lane, Amity
Mary Koehler
5th Avenue, Hillsboro
Tonya Graham
Lit Way, Ashland
Josie G. Mendoza
Terrace Drive, Lake Oswego
Megan Knight
SW 182nd Terrace, Beaverton
Cindy Deacon Williams
Pioneer Road, Medford

James Wodarczak
Ripplewood Drive, Yamhill

Betty Wodarczak
Ripplewood Drive, Yamhill

Jim Just
Almen Drive, Lebanon
Ray Thorp
Van Pelt Drive, Brookings
Cheryl Thorp
Van Pelt Drive, Brookings
Eleanor L. Pearson
SE Division Street, Portland
Lisa Hargrave
May Street, Hood River

(This information furnished by Kassetra Stevenson, Albany.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Measure 37 is not about property rights or compensation for
loss of use of property. This measure’s sole motive is to destroy
land use planning or protective zoning in all areas of the State of
Oregon.
Under this measure, unless a filed claim is compensated for a
perceived loss of value in their property because of its zoning,

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments

the filer, in many cases may use their property as it was zoned
or not zoned when acquired by them or their forefathers.
Compensation is impracticable, without large increases in taxes,
so current ordinances and laws that cover that property could
be waived.
A residential zone could even be infiltrated by commercial or
industrial uses by property owners who held that property before
it was zoned as it is now.

It is important to remember zoning gives protection and surety
whether owning or acquiring new property. Oregon has devel-
oped and pioneered a valuable land use planning system. Don’t
let it be destroyed by this measure, which would allow certain
holders of property to do as they please with their property,
which may infringe on your rights. Property rights have two
sides; zoning may tend to restrict but it also protects from others
harmful actions.

Remember, zoning allows you full use of your property within the
zone it is situated. Farmers in exclusive farm use zones are free
to farm and have been compensated by property tax considera-
tions for keeping their land in agriculture. Let us keep our
environment that we all enjoy and use. Land use planning in
Oregon has been upheld by courts and by statewide votes in the
past. Do not destroy the system by passage of this measure.
Let’s keep Oregon Oregon!

Join business leaders, small business owners and County
Farm Bureaus across the state working to protect and
enhance Oregon’s economy.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE 37!

Submitted by:
Lynn Lundquist, President, Oregon Business Association
Tom Kelly, President, Neil Kelly Construction, Inc. (founding

Board Chair of OBA)

James A. Zehren
Kevin A. Lynch
Nik Blosser

Jim Kelly
Michael Powell
Mark A. Long 
John W. Russell- President, Russell Development
John Emrick- President and CEO, Norm Thompson
Paul Burnet- CH2M HILL
Stephen J. Petruzelli

(This information furnished by Lynn Lundquist, President, Oregon
Business Association; Tom Kelly, President, Neil Kelly Construction, Inc.,
founding Board Chair, OBA.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Marion County Farm Bureau

Argument in Opposition

(This information furnished by Larry Wells, President, Board of Directors,
Marion County Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Business Leaders Say NO to Measure 37

The Oregon Business Association is a bi-partisan business
organization representing over 250 companies—large and
small—across Oregon.

We strongly oppose Measure 37!

• Measure 37 will create too many complex layers of new

government!

As business people, we expect state and local governments to
be as streamlined and efficient as possible. Yet Measure 37 will
require over 300 government entities and agencies to create
new processes, new procedures and new paperwork just to deal
with the bureaucracy mandated by the measure.

• Measure 37 creates a bureaucratic nightmare, adding

significant costs to taxpayers!

As business people, we carefully evaluate the costs and risks
of any new project we may undertake. After looking closely at
Measure 37, we believe it is too risky. We know it will cost tax-
payers and businesses up to $344 million dollars a year just to
deal with the paperwork and red tape. But the state’s fiscal
analysis concludes that the final cost to businesses and tax-
payers “cannot be determined”.

• Measure 37 will lead to numerous lawsuits and

litigation!

As business people, we support a balanced economy in
Oregon, including manufacturing, technology, natural resources,
and agriculture. Measure 37 will hurt our economy because it
is too complex, too vague and will result in numerous legal
challenges—costing taxpayers, flooding the courts, and elimi-
nating the safeguards that protect Oregon businesses and
Oregon farmers.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
131 | Statewide Measures

Former Governor Kitzhaber warns,

“This measure was flawed before and it is flawed again.”

They’re back.

In 2002 while I was Governor, the Supreme Court threw out the
last ballot measure drafted by the same people who bring you
Measure 37.
That measure was flawed and so is Measure 37.

And just this July, the Oregon Attorney General’s office wrote an
analysis of the likely effects of their new initiative. That analysis
found “uncertainty,” “significant ambiguities” and “areas of
dispute” within the new measure.
(Department of Justice memorandum, July 19, 2004).
And in their recent editorial against Measure 37 the Medford Mail
Tribune wrote,

“It would open the floodgates to land-use
lawsuits, degrade the livability of our state
and force local governments to cut existing
services or raise taxes to pay the costs.”

Medford Mail Tribune, July 6, 2004

Measure 37 is a mess. It is poorly written and full of loopholes.
It creates all sorts of uncertainties for property owners. For
example, the measure says government can decide one thing
for your neighbor’s property and something entirely different for
yours!
One thing is certain, Measure 37 means more legal chal-
lenges, more litigation, and more lawsuits. Local permit
processes will be stopped in their tracks while our courts are
tied up with lawsuits.
Please vote “No” on Measure 37.
Former Governor Kitzhaber

(This information furnished by John Kitzhaber, M.D.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 37 Arguments
Argument in Opposition

Vote No on #37

• As farmers and ranchers we are the true stewards of the land
and this measure will not benefit agriculture’s land use protec-
tions. Measure 37 is all about destroying wise land use
planning, and not true compensation for property rights tak-
ings. Oregon taxpayers do not have, and will not have the
financial resources to fund this measure.

• Like farmers throughout Oregon, Jefferson and Grant county
farmers rely on stable agricultural zones to continue to thrive
and flourish. The irrigated lands have good soils, valuable
water rights, and farm use taxation. If measure 37 passes
farmland owners will have a different set of land use regula-
tions, depending upon their or their ancestors date of
purchase. This will result in total chaos, numerous conflicts,
and endless litigation. This is exactly what measure 37 pro-
poses. Creating a reckless, wasteful policy resulting in lawyers
being the true beneficiaries, not the citizens of Oregon.

• Recently, Madras residents were opposed to a feedlot 1.5
miles away in an agricultural zone. If measure 37 passes, a
feedlot could be next door. Just as farmers expect zones free
of urban sprawl and conflicts, suburban home owners should
demand the continuation of residential zones free from agri-
cultural and industrial hazards and nuisances. Passage of
measure 37 would jeopardize the safe guards of zoning.

• The sum total of every property owner’s desires is more than

society can afford. To allow a house on any hill or every parcel
would quickly exhaust all public dollars for roads, mail
service, school busing, fire protection, law enforcement, and
utilities. The vast rangeland areas of Jefferson and Grant
counties should remain working ranches!

• The compensation clause will not apply to any federal rules

and/or regulations or health and safety issues.

Jefferson County Farm Bureau and Grant County Farm Bureau
oppose measure 37. We encourage not only our members, but
every Oregonian to vote this measure down.

(This information furnished by Mickey Killingsworth, Secretary-Treasurer,
Jefferson County Farm Bureau; Grant County Farm Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon AFL-CIO Opposes Measure 37’s

Special Rights for Favored Property Owners

Don’t be misled by the slick title that headlines Ballot Measure
37. We took a closer look and found that the effects of
Measure 37 are far more complicated and dangerous than its
title suggests.
Measure 37 Creates Special Rights for Favored Property
Owners
Measure 37 will create a new class of favored property owners
with special rights. Those rights include the right to challenge
cities and counties that attempt to enforce zoning and land use
laws and to demand payments for such enforcement. But only
some property owners will gain these rights; others will not.
Measure 37 Overrides Equal Application of Our Laws
For property owners who gain these special rights, cities and
counties will be forced to decide when to enforce our laws and
pay what those property owners demand and when to exempt
those property owners from the equal application of our laws.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
132 | Statewide Measures

Measure 37 Will Allow Big Corporations to Ride Roughshod
Over Local Communities
Wealthy corporations that team up with favored property owners
are certain to use Measure 37 to their advantage.
Recently, Wal-Mart tried and failed to overcome community
opposition to building new super-centers in Hillsboro and
Oregon City. But projects like those will be much more difficult
to stop if Measure 37 becomes law.
Measure 37 will allow “big-box retailers” like Wal-Mart to partner
with local landowners and challenge community zoning laws
wherever they want to build new mega-stores. Once corpora-
tions like Wal-Mart can demand budget-busting payments from
local taxpayers just for complying with our laws, they will be
able to ride roughshod over our communities, displace local
businesses and undermine good-paying jobs around the state.
Say No to special rights for favored property owners. Defend
the equal application of our laws. Protect our jobs and our
communities. Please join us in voting No on Measure 37.
Tim Nesbitt
President
Oregon AFL-CIO

Brad Witt
Secretary-Treasurer
Oregon AFL-CIO

(This information furnished by Tim Nesbitt, President, Oregon AFL-CIO.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Protect Your Neighborhood and the Value of Your Home

Vote No! on Measure 37

Like most Oregonians, you probably live in a quiet residential
neighborhood—something you cherish and something the value
of your home depends upon.
What is it that prevents someone from building a 24-hour
mini-mart or gas station next door to you; what is it that pre v e n t s
him or her from blighting your neighborhood and destro y i n g
the value of your home? The answer is reasonable zoning
regulations.

That’s what Measure 37 seeks to destroy: your lifestyle, your
neighborhood, and the value of your home.

Measure 37 is designed to pave the way for the corporation or
landowner who wants to build that 24-hour mini-mart or gas
station. But what about you and your home! That 24-hour
mini-mart or gas station will reduce the value of your home and
ruin everything you treasure about your neighborhood. If
Measure 37 is in place, you may find the zoning you rely upon
won’t be there to protect you. Reasonable zoning regulations are
what preserve and protect our neighborhoods and the value of
our homes. Don’t turn our cities into Houston. Measure 37 is
bad for you, your neighborhood, and Oregon.

Protect Your Neighborhood and the Value of Your Home

Vote No! on Measure 37

(This information furnished by John W. Stephens.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Measure 38

Proposed by initiative petition to be voted on at the General
Election, November 2, 2004.

Ballot Title38

ABOLISHES SAIF; STATE MUST REINSURE, SATISFY SAIF’S
OBLIGATIONS; DEDICATES PROCEEDS, POTENTIAL
SURPLUS TO PUBLIC PURPOSES
RESULT OF “YES” VOTE: “Yes” vote abolishes SAIF; state
must reinsure, satisfy SAIF’s current obligations (including
pending policyholder claims against SAIF); dedicates proceeds,
potential surplus to specified public purposes.
RESULT OF “NO” VOTE: “No” vote retains law authorizing SAIF,
a public corporation, to sell and administer workers compensa-
tion insurance and to administer an accident fund for that
purpose.
SUMMARY: State Accident Insurance Fund (SAIF) is a public
corporation selling, administering workers compensation insur-
ance, and administering accident fund for that purpose. Measure
abolishes SAIF. Requires state to assume SAIF’s authority over
accident fund; reinsure fund; satisfy SAIF’s obligations under its
existing policies; use fifty percent of any excess surplus (mean-
ing any funds exceeding reserves and surplus necessary to
satisfy future liabilities) to satisfy policyholder claims in litigation
before October 2003; transfer forty percent of any excess sur-
plus to new fund; sell SAIF’s assets; transfer proceeds to same
fund; and reinsure, otherwise resolve SAIF’s remaining liabilities.
Dedicates new fund to supporting schools, local law enforce-
ment; providing medications to seniors, medically needy;
promoting job growth. Requires certain reports to legislature
regarding rates for insurance premiums. Other provisions.
ESTIMATE OF FINANCIAL IMPACT:
The measure would reduce state revenue by approximately
$405 million per year and would reduce state expenditures by
approximately $301 million per year due to the elimination of
SAIF.
The measure would require additional state government expen-
ditures of $1.8 million to $5.5 million per year on a recurring
basis with an additional one-time expenditure of $2.2 billion to
$2.4 billion.
There will be a one time increase of state revenues of $32.6
million from sale of real property.
The measure would require local government expenditures of
$2.6 million to $10.5 million per year on a recurring basis.
There is no financial effect on local government revenues.

Text of Measure

1. This Act shall be known as the Oregon Priorities Act. 

2. The people recognize that the State of Oregon owns and

operates an insurance business called SAIF Corporation, that it
is an asset of the State of Oregon, and that another asset of the
State of Oregon is the excess surplus in the Industrial Accident
Fund. The intent of this Act is to use these state assets to sup-
port education, prescription medications, local law enforcement,
and workforce training rather than to provide an organization to
selectively sell insurance in the retail market. Use of these assets
to fund these priorities fulfills a fundamental responsibility of
government and reduces the pressure to increase taxes. It is
the intent of the people that the State of Oregon get out of the
insurance business and use the proceeds from this change to
support these important government priorities. 

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
133 | Statewide Measures

3. The Oregon Priorities Fund is hereby established in the
State Treasury, separate and distinct from the General Fund.
Monies in this Fund shall be continuously appropriated to the
Legislative Assembly. The use of this Fund is limited to the
following priorities: 

a) to support Oregon education, covering Kindergarten

through 12th grade,

b) to help provide prescription medications to Oregon’s low

income senior citizens and the medically needy,

c) to support local law enforcement programs in Oregon cities

and counties, and

d) to promote job growth through workforce training.

4. Money shall be transferred to the Oregon Priorities Fund as

provided in this Act. 

5. Moneys in the Oregon Priorities Fund may be invested as

provided by law.

6. The State Auditor, within the Secretary of State’s office,
shall be assigned to oversee the establishment of the Oregon
Priorities Fund, to assure the public that funds are accounted for
and spent in accordance with this law. The State Auditor shall
publish an annual report to the State Treasurer, Governor and
Legislative Assembly to provide public accountability for the
activities taken to implement this Act. 

7. For purposes of this Act, “SAIF Corporation” means the
State Accident Insurance Fund Corporation; “excess surplus”
means the money in the Industrial Accident Fund subject to
Legislative disposition pursuant to ORS 656.634; “DAS Director”
means the Director of the Department of Administrative
Services. “DCBS Director” means the Director of the Department
of Consumer and Business Services. 

8. This Act supersedes any existing law which may be

construed to reduce or restrict the full implementation of this Act
and this Act shall be construed so as to best implement the
intent of this Act. 

9. On the effective date of this Act: 
a) SAIF Corporation shall cease selling new policies of

insurance;

b) ORS 656.017 (2) is repealed;
c) the authority of the Board of Directors of SAIF Corporation
shall be transferred to the DAS Director and the Board shall be
abolished; and

d) the DAS Director and the DCBS Director shall commence

preparation of a plan for the orderly exit of the State from the
retail insurance business consistent with this Act. Such plan
shall include reinsurance of SAIF Corporation and the Industrial
Accident Fund in a manner that enables its obligations to be met
with a goal of increasing its excess surplus as much as possible
consistent with that purpose.

10. One year after the effective date of this Act, and in accor-
dance with the plan of the DAS Director and the DCBS Director: 

a) SAIF Corporation shall cease renewing policies of

insurance;

b) the DAS Director shall reinsure a portion of the liabilities of

SAIF Corporation and the Industrial Accident Fund;

c) the State Treasurer shall set aside fifty percent (50%) of
the excess surplus to satisfy all claims filed by or on behalf of
policyholders against the State Accident Insurance Fund
Corporation or the Industrial Accident Fund that were in litigation
prior to the filing of the Prospective Petition which initiates this
Act pursuant to ORS 250.045. The State Treasurer shall maintain
such fund separate from all other funds until such time as the
State Treasurer, in consultation with the Department of Justice,
determines that maintenance of such fund is no longer neces-
sary; and

d) after the State Treasurer establishes the fund described in

section 10 c, above, the State Treasurer shall transfer eighty
percent of the remaining excess surplus funds from the
Industrial Accident Fund to the Oregon Priorities Fund. The State

continued ➔

Measure 38

Treasurer may contract with independent outside persons or
firms to provide advice and assistance in determining the sum
eligible for the transfer, and in carrying out the transfer. The
State Treasurer shall have discretion to best interpret and imple-
ment the provisions of this Section so as to fulfill the intent of
the people as stated in the Act.

11. Two years after the effective date of this Act, and in accor-
dance with the plan of the DAS Director and the DCBS Director: 

a) SAIF Corporation shall be abolished;
b) the DAS Director shall reinsure or otherwise resolve the

remaining liabilities of SAIF Corporation and the Industrial
Accident Fund;

c) the DAS Director shall sell all real and personal property of

the SAIF Corporation to a private entity. All proceeds from the
sale shall be paid to the State Treasurer and shall be deposited
in the Oregon Priorities Fund. The Attorney General shall assist
the DAS Director in negotiating the sale and shall assure that the
sale includes adequate provisions to allocate responsibility
between the purchaser and the state for compliance with all
pertinent laws; 

d) the State Treasurer shall transfer the excess surplus in

accordance with section 10 c and d, above.

12. The DAS Director may contract with independent outside

persons or firms to provide advice and assistance to carry out
the provisions of this Act. The DAS Director shall have broad
discretion to best interpret and implement the provisions of this
Act, and to fulfill the intent of the people as stated in this Act. 

13. The Director of the Department of Consumer and

Business Services shall not approve for use any workers com-
pensation insurance rate that is excessive, inadequate or unfairly
discriminatory. Beginning with the 2005 regular session of the
Legislature, and at each regular session thereafter until 2009,
the Director shall report to the Governor and the Legislature on
the status of the Director’s enforcement activities under this
provision. 

14. The Board of Directors of SAIF Corporation shall not chal-

lenge this Act or any of its provisions. Any action taken by the
Board of Directors of SAIF Corporation within one year before
passage of this Act, or any time after passage of this Act, is
subject to being set aside or modified by court action or by
specific legislation if a material element of the action by the
SAIF Corporation Board of Directors undermines or otherwise
weakens the full implementation of this Act. 

15. If any person brings a state court challenge to any portion
of this Act, or challenges passage of this Act, asserting that the
Act or any portion of the Act violates the Oregon Constitution or
the United States Constitution, or asserting any other legal
challenge to passage or implementation of this Act, that action
shall be filed in Circuit Court and shall be given expedited
attention by the Court; the decision of the Circuit Court shall be
subject to direct review by the Oregon Supreme Court, which
shall give expedited attention to such appeal. 

16. If any portion of this Act is invalidated for any reason, all
remaining portions of this Act shall remain in place and shall be
given full force and effect. 

17. This Act takes effect on January 1, 2005.

Explanatory Statement

Ballot Measure 38 abolishes SAIF, the public corporation that

sells workers’ compensation insurance to and administers
workers’ compensation insurance for the state and other public
and private entities and administers the Industrial Accident Fund
for that purpose.

On January 1, 2005, SAIF must stop selling new policies of
insurance. The Board of Directors of SAIF is abolished and its
authority transferred to the Director of the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services (DAS). The DAS Director and the
Director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services
(DCBS) are required to prepare a plan for the cessation of
workers’ compensation retail insurance business activities by the
state. Such plan must include reinsurance of liabilities of the
fund and satisfy SAIF’s obligations under its existing policies.

On January 1, 2006, SAIF must cease renewing policies of

insurance, and the DAS Director must reinsure a portion of the
liabilities of SAIF Corporation and the Industrial Accident Fund.
The measure requires the State Treasurer to set aside 50 percent
of any funds exceeding reserves and surplus necessary to
satisfy future liabilities of SAIF (“excess surplus”) to be used to
satisfy SAIF policyholder claims and claims against the Industrial
Accident Fund in litigation prior to October 2003, which may be
ultimately adjudicated. The State Treasurer then must transfer 80
percent of the remaining excess surplus to the Oregon Priorities
Fund created by the measure. Moneys in the Oregon Priorities
Fund are continuously appropriated to the Legislative Assembly
for the purposes of supporting schools and local law enforce-
ment, providing prescription medications to seniors and the
medically needy, and promoting job growth through workforce
training.

On January 1, 2007, SAIF is abolished. The DAS Director
must reinsure or otherwise resolve the remaining liabilities of
SAIF and the Industrial Accident Fund, and sell all of SAIF’s real
and personal property. The State Treasurer is required to deposit
proceeds from the sale of SAIF’s property and any excess sur-
plus remaining after all the obligations of SAIF and the Industrial
Accident Fund are satisfied in the Oregon Priorities Fund.

The DAS Director and State Treasurer are authorized to

contract with independent outside persons or firms to provide
advice and assistance in carrying out provisions of the measure.
The Board of Directors of SAIF Corporation may not challenge

any provisions of the measure or take any action that under-
mines or otherwise weakens the full implementation of the
measure.

The DCBS Director is instructed to report to the Governor

and the Legislative Assembly regarding the requirement
that premium rates for workers’ compensation insurance set
by the department not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly
discriminatory.

Committee Members:
Brian Boe
Shawn Miller
Jessica Harris Adamson
Pat McCormick
Sid Lezak

Appointed by:
Chief Petitioners
Chief Petitioners
Secretary of State
Secretary of State
Members of the Committee

(This committee was appointed to provide an impartial explanation of the
ballot measure pursuant to ORS 251.215.)

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
134 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments
Argument in Favor

scenarios and prepared by experts in that field. That did not
happen with Measure 38.

CORRUPTION AT SAIF – OREGON’S GROWING SCANDAL

We’ve all seen the headlines. We’ve all heard the stories.

FBI Agent Looks at Documents Involving SAIF, Goldschmidt

The Oregonian, July 17, 2004

Judge Orders Workers’ Comp Insurer

Not to Destroy Records

The Bulletin (Bend), June 4, 2004

State Police Probe Possible Destruction of Records

The World (Coos Bay), June 5, 2004

While some claim SAIF is an Oregon success story, the head-
lines – and the facts – paint a very different picture.

• SAIF has hidden its activities from the public, requiring

action from the courts to disclose even the smallest bits of
information. The Government Standards & Practices
Commission, State Police, state courts and FBI are investi-
gating SAIF and its high priced consultants.

• SAIF pushed 11,000 Oregon businesses into the more
expensive assigned risk pool. Instead of supporting the
very same businesses that serve as the backbone of our
economy, SAIF instead placed additional financial burdens
on them.

• SAIF has denied worker claims at an unacceptably high

rate. It has abandoned its original mission of serving new
and small Oregon businesses and protecting the
Oregonians who work to make our economy stronger.

• SAIF took advantage of a legal loophole to halt benefits for

disabled workers, cutting off their life lines without any
notice. If SAIF had its way, disabled Oregonians would be
left without benefits and forced to pay for their own medical
care while it continues to amass financial reserves.

How can Oregonians put their faith in SAIF when the agency has
placed more importance on serving itself than the businesses
and injured workers it was created to protect?
Clearly SAIF has shown we cannot trust it to right its own
wrongs.
It’s time for Oregonians to take matters into their own hands
and stop Oregon’s growing scandal by enacting real insurance
reform.

It’s time for Oregon to pass Measure 38.
Oregonians for Accountability

(This information furnished by Lisa Gilliam, Oregonians for Accountability.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

VOICES OF EXPERIENCE
As members of the Oregon House and Senate, we represent
areas as different as eastern Oregon and the north Willamette
Valley. One of us is a Republican and the other a Democrat. But
we share an abiding interest in making sure Oregon’s citizens
get good information to make good decisions.

We have also served on your legislature’s Ways and Means
Committees and had the responsibility for making decisions
about the state’s budget. We are very familiar with the fiscal
impact statements that estimate if and what a particular action
will cost the state. They should be based on most likely

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
135 | Statewide Measures

The fiscal impact statement for Measure 38 wasn’t produced by
the offices that usually do this specific kind of work. It came
from a committee that has no budget expertise.
BOTH SIDES OF THE STORY

If Measure 38 passes, SAIF can follow a path similar to those
taken in Michigan and Nevada. The legislature’s lawyers assure
us there is no legal reason barring us from that approach. And,
we would get two years to make that happen. With this real
insurance reform, private companies will be able to provide great
service to Oregon’s businesses, but without SAIF’s conflict of
interest or unfair tax advantages.
By using this option, the $2.2 billion in one-time costs goes
away. And, even the spokesperson against Measure 38
admitted, “…the one time expense of $2.2 billion or more would
be covered by a SAIF trust fund and would not come from tax-
payers’ pockets.” The Oregonian, August 5, 2004
VOTE FOR THE TRUTH
With this real insurance reform, the State of Oregon, taxpayers
and employers stand to actually make money. The state and
taxpayers could gain $500 million or more – just like they did in
Michigan and Nevada.
Make your decision, but make an informed one.

Senator Kurt Schrader
Representative Tom Butler

(This information furnished by Representative Tom Butler, Senator Kurt
Schrader.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

THE SAIF STORY: AN INJURED OREGON WOMAN SPEAKS
I am the story SAIF doesn’t want you to hear.

My name is Lorinda Gauthier and I am an injured Oregon worker.
I used to work for the Oregon Department of Transportation. I
got up every morning, went to work and did my job. I never 
worried about what might happen if I was injured. I had every
reason to believe SAIF would meet its obligations. Right?
Wrong!

One day I was struck on the head by an 18 inch steel nozzle. I
lost consciousness, was taken to the local fire department
and transported to the hospital. I experienced sub-orbital nerve
damage and now I have frequent extremely painful migraine
headaches. To limit these attacks I need to work in a controlled
environment. But, when I approached my boss at ODOT about
this he said he didn’t have a job for me and I was laid off.
Meanwhile, SAIF closed my claim and I was left without a job
and the two years of wages I should have earned.
SAIF did not stand by me. In fact, they walked over and past
me. They never wasted a moment’s thought about my injuries
and my needs.

While I have been languishing in medical bills, lost wages and
the ongoing effects of my injury, SAIF was out building its
financial reserves and sending kick backs to the political
and trade groups who help keep it in power.
I am by no means an expert on workers’ comp insurance, but I
am an expert on being an injured worker and the additional
suffering that can come at the hands of SAIF.

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

I, and all the injured workers of Oregon, deserve better. That is
why I am voting yes on Measure 38.

Lorinda Gauthier

(This information furnished by Lorinda Gauthier.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Oregon at a crossroads.

I was state director for the National Federation of Independent
Business for ten years, and I still believe in NFIB’s core values.
Our free enterprise system based upon private sector busi-
nesses competing against each other provides the best prices
and services, while government-run monopolies harm our econ-
omy. Oregon is at a crossroads and this election we will make a
vital decision about the future of our state. We can embrace the
benefits of choice, or fall victim to a government monopoly in
the making.
The best choice for Oregon’s small businesses.

As an Oregon business owner, I’ve seen SAIF’s tactics first
hand. In 1990, SAIF threw my company and thousands of others
into an Assigned Risk Pool where rates more than doubled.
Fortunately, Liberty Northwest recognized my business was a
good risk and fished me out of the pool. Today my company has
grown to approximately 100 employees with over $7 million in
annual sales. If it was up to SAIF, this story would have had a
very different ending.

Some say they fear loss of coverage or higher rates. But when
states like Michigan and Nevada enacted real insurance reform,
choice increased and rates went down.
Our last chance for real insurance reform.

I was a chief petitioner to place Measure 38 on the ballot not
because it was my first choice, but because it was our last
chance to stop SAIF’s drive to become a monopoly. Despite
numerous attempts to level the playing field with SAIF, the legis-
lature was unwilling or unable to act. Oregonians took matters
into their own hands to create real insurance reform.

If we do not act now to stop SAIF and support competition and
choice in Oregon, we will be left with no choice at all.

Join me - and the Oregon success stories that have yet to be
written - and vote yes on Measure 38.

Jim Bernau
Turner, Oregon

(This information furnished by Jim Bernau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

Who is Oregon Citizens for a Sound Economy (CSE) PAC?

Oregon CSE PAC represents tens of thousands of Oregonians,
dedicated to the principles of lower taxes, less government, and
more freedom. We believe that the only way to see our issue
agenda enacted is through the commitment of our volunteers
and supporters who are mobilized and ready to show up and
demand policy change 7 days a week and 365 days a year.

You may remember us from earlier this year, when our activists 

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
136 | Statewide Measures

successfully led the fight to repeal the largest tax increase in
Oregon’s history. But, what do we have to do with SAIF?
Why does Oregon Citizens for a Sound Economy (CSE) PAC
support Measure 38?

SAIF is a giant government-run monopoly in the making that is
defying Oregon taxpayers, destroying the private market, and
ignoring the mission it was originally created to serve. Instead of
helping small businesses obtain workers’ compensation insur-
ance, it has used government funds to actively seek out low risk,
highly profitable opportunities for itself. And, while SAIF has con-
tinued to rake in the profits, Oregon taxpayers have been told
time and time again the state just can’t survive without taking
more of our hard earned tax dollars.
Measure 38 will end SAIF’s unfair domination of the marketplace
and stop the fleecing of Oregon taxpayers.
Join Oregon Citizens for a Sound Economy (CSE) PAC in
voting YES on M 38!
We must get the state out of the business of selling insurance
and interfering in the marketplace.
We must take back the excess profits SAIF has refused to share
and make a stand for smaller government and private enterprise
here in Oregon.

Please join Oregon Citizens for a Sound Economy (CSE) PAC in
voting yes on Measure 38!

Russ Walker
Oregon Director, Oregon Citizens for a Sound Economy (CSE)
PAC
www.oregoncsepac.com

(This information furnished by Russ Walker, Oregon Citizens for a Sound
Economy PAC.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

MEASURE 38 BENEFITS PUBLIC SAFETY

This election we can do something positive for our state and the
people of Oregon.
We can create a long overdue rainy day fund to avoid future tax
increases or cuts to vital services like jails or schools.
We can get the state out of the workers’ compensation insur-
ance business and help fund top priorities like law enforcement.
Oregon needs a rainy day fund. When state funds drop, local
law enforcement officials are left scrambling to patch together
insufficient funding for courts, prosecutors and officers.
Our state should be worried about our safety, not running an
insurance company. We don’t need a SAIF monopoly. We need
more money for law enforcement and other critical services.
SAIF has hundreds of millions of dollars in excess profits while
mental health services degrade, criminals are not held account-
able, and our overall quality of life deteriorates.
SAIF no longer serves the public interest.
We once needed a state fund. Employers were required to
provide workers’ comp insurance, but the private sector couldn’t
cover all businesses. SAIF was created to be the insurer of last
resort, so all businesses could have coverage.
That has changed. The private sector is now well positioned to
handle the job, handle it better, and SAIF no longer serves as the
insurer of last resort.

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

SAIF has abandoned its mission and shot down all efforts at
reform.

As a law enforcement officer, I am alarmed by the number and
depth of the SAIF scandals. SAIF has lost a great deal of the
credibility it once had.
M e a s u re 38 is a positive step for Oregon. It’s a win for taxpayers,
for our competitive market system and for good government.
It is time for real insurance reform.

(This information furnished by Philip J. Romero, Ph.D., Former Chief
Economist, State of California, Former Dean, University of Oregon College
of Business.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

It’s time to pass Measure 38.
Sheriff Jan Clements
Lane County

(This information furnished by Sheriff Jan Clements, Lane County.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

ECONOMIST SAYS OREGON NEEDS REAL REFORM

Oregon’s economic recovery requires a healthy, competitive
workers’ compensation system.

The first step in California’s turnaround in the early 1990s was
workers’ comp reform. As an economist, I believe Oregon’s
system is heading in the wrong direction. Measure 38 will get
us back on track.

Competition is the most powerful economic force in the history
of the world. Monopolies or quasi-monopolies are not in the
public interest, regardless of their stated intent. SAIF is emerging
as a virtual monopoly, which makes Oregon unattractive to
corporate investment and impedes our economic success.
SAIF has strayed from its mission, and has resisted all
attempts at reform. It no longer serves the public’s best
interest.

SAIF refuses to cover certain small and start-up businesses –
the very businesses that will fuel Oregon’s economic recovery,
that SAIF once covered.
After the Legislature made SAIF a public corporation, SAIF
dropped coverage for some 10,000 businesses, forcing them
into the more expensive assigned risk pool. Nearly 12,000 busi-
nesses remain in the pool, paying higher rates that prevent them
from hiring as many workers as they should.
The solution is obvious: harness the powerful competition and
permit private insurers to serve the market that SAIF has
rejected. But the market cannot perform as intended as long
as SAIF abuses its status as a public agency to squelch
competitors.
Today Oregon has the worst of both worlds: Taxpayers are sub-
sidizing a quasi-monopolist that acts like a private insurer when
it’s expedient to, but fails to fulfill its public mission.

Experience in other states demonstrates that rates go down
when the state fund is made private, and real competition
occurs.
Oregon will benefit if Measure 38 is approved.
It’s basic economics: Competition will lower workers’ comp
insurance rates, which will improve our ability to create and grow
businesses and jobs.
Philip J. Romero, Ph.D.
Former Chief Economist, State of California
Former Dean, University of Oregon College of Business

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
137 | Statewide Measures

Long term stability in Workers Compensation Rates

The driving forces behind low workers compensation rates are
legislative actions, court decisions, market conditions and group
performance. Competition between providers should determine
what small business pays.
SAIF’s business practices intimidate private competitors,
causing private company competition to decrease. We have
seen a decreasing amount of private insurers in Oregon’s market
over the past 6-8 years. SAIF’s large reserve fund and tax-free
advantage is ultimately eliminating competition altogether.
The lack of private competition indicates that the system is
broken. Competition is the proven way to control costs as the
driving force behind low rates and by eliminating competition;
the guarantee of low rates is gone. SAIF has become a dictator
in the insurance industry. Even if SAIF increased their premiums
—which would theoretically encourage new private competitors
to emerge, SAIF’s large reserve fund looms as too large of a
threat for private insurers.
A study commissioned by ORA in 2001 illustrates the result
of this threat. “The analysis undertaken for this report shows
that SAIF is engaged in a number of business practices that
place SAIF in an extremely high ranking relative to other insur-
ers. The nature of these practices is such that they inherently
pose a genuine risk of limiting or even reversing progress in
attracting and retaining private insurer activity in Oregon’s work-
ers compensation market” (Philip R. O’Conner, Ph.D., Eugene P.
Esposito, J.D. (200). The Oregon Worker’s Compensation Market:
Analysis & Prognosis. Chicago, IL: Proactive Strategies, Inc.)

The Oregon Restaurant Association believes that independent
businesses live on market conditions, not subsidies. Measure 38
will not impact the increase or decrease of rates. Measure 38 will
open the market place and allow more companies to compete
for workers compensation. As a business organization we sup-
port more competition, and that is what will keep rates down
and benefit the consumer.
Vote YES on Measure 38

(This information furnished by Bill Perry, Oregon Restaurant Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

As a representative of Accident Fund Insurance Company of
America, I am not recommending how the people of Oregon
should vote on the privatization of their state’s workers compen-
sation system. I am simply sharing the experiences Michigan
and Accident Fund have encountered since our privatization.

Accident Fund was purchased for $262 million in December of
1994. Historically, from 1912 until the year we were privatized,
Accident Fund never exceeded 17 percent in market share.
There are presently more than 250 insurers writing workers com-
pensation policies in Michigan. Over the past five years Accident
Fund has continued efforts to maintain our customer base and
expand the services provided to policyholders in the state of
Michigan - as well as the other states in which we now do

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

business. We currently have a 27 percent market share in
Michigan and are now one of the top 20 workers compensation
insurers nationally. Four years ago we weren’t in the top 50.
Since privatization, our rates have decreased approximately 35
percent overall. Even with the market increases subsequent to
2000, Accident Fund’s rates continue to be below the market
average.
Accident Fund, which was the workers compensation insurer of
“second-to-last resort” prior to privatization, continues to write
policies for small business with $50,000 or less in annual pre-
mium. Our average policy size is only $10,000. Net premiums
written by Accident Fund climbed from $203 million in 2000 to
$441.6 million last year. Net premiums are projected to hit nearly
$500 million this year.

Customer survey scores have been consistently higher than
those received pre-privatization.

The State of Michigan produces annual State of the Competition
studies, and they continue to report good competition in the
marketplace.
Michigan enjoys a healthy workers compensation environment,
and there looks to be no change in that regard on the horizon.
Mark R. Hogle
Executive Vice President and

Chief Operating Officer

Accident Fund Insurance Company of America

(This information furnished by Mark R. Hogle, Executive Vice President
and Chief Operating Officer, Accident Fund Insurance Company of
America.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

A MONOPOLY IN THE MAKING

The State Accident Insurance Fund has been planning a
takeover of Oregon’s workers’ compensation insurance market
since 1987. That’s when former Governor Neil Goldschmidt
received a telling memo from former SAIF Director Stan Long.
He recommended to Goldschmidt, “You ‘hold your nose’ while
the major private competition for SAIF, Liberty Mutual, goes
insolvent.”

Department of Commerce Memo from Stanton F. Long to
Governor Neil Goldschmidt, February 24, 1987

The intention was obvious and the path was chosen.

SAIF wanted to become Ore g o n ’s government-run monopoly.

A SIGN OF THINGS TO COME

SAIF wants you to think it is the only thing standing between our
state and skyrocketing workers’ compensation insurance rates.
Its defenders warn that Oregon could end up like Washington if
anything happens to SAIF.
What they don’t tell you is that Washington has a government-
run workers’ compensation monopoly. And, SAIF wants to be
just like them.

Washington is a sign of where our state is headed
if we do not enact real insurance reform in Oregon.

HIGH RATES, POOR SERVICE AND NO HELP IN SIGHT

Under Washington’s government-run monopoly, rates have sky-
rocketed and employers are complaining about lack of choice
and poor service. A recent study of the state’s system found:

• Washington has increased workers’ comp rates by nearly

40% over the last two years.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
138 | Statewide Measures

• The Washington Chapter of the National Federation of

Independent Business lists worker’s compensation costs as
one of the state’s most serious problems.

• The National Foundation for Unemployment and Workers’

Compensation ranks Washington as the fourth most expen-
sive state for workers’ compensation.

Reforming Washington’s Workers’ Compensation System Policy
Brief by Washington Policy Center, Seattle, May 2004.

Washington’s government-run monopoly has wreaked economic
havoc in that state. There’s no reason to believe a SAIF monop-
oly in Oregon would be any different.

We can learn from Washington’s mistake

and stop SAIF from becoming a monopoly in Oregon.

(This information furnished by Jeff Stone.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

A former SAIF customer.

I was a SAIF customer for several years. The claims handling
was a nightmare because of high turnover in the claims exam-
iner ranks. I left SAIF.

Government Run Monopoly

I am a believer in privatizing as many government functions as
possible. There is no need for the State of Oregon to be in the
insurance business. The Nevada change from a government
owned workers’ comp system to a competitive market resulted
in the now over 100 insurance companies competing for that
business. SAIF has run off most workers compensation insurers.
Once SAIF is sold, the market will be flooded with new insurers.
This is because SAIF has used investment income on its huge
reserves to pay dividends (selectively) to some their customers.

Corruption

The payment of huge sums to lobbyists and expensive public
advertising campaigns are not the wisest use of SAIF’s money.
The resignation of CEO Kathy Keene, the destruction of docu-
ments, and allegedly an FBI investigation into SAIF’s activities
reminds me of the old saying, “Where there’s smoke there’s fire.”

Speaking of Reserves

Under Ballot Measure 38, the dollars generated to the state
would create four reserve funds, one of which would guarantee
funding of K-12 education during down economies.

The people must act.

Several business people, including me, tried during the legisla-
tive session to get the state out of the insurance business. The
barrage of high dollar lobbyists paralyzed the legislature. We, the
people, must act.

I strongly urge a yes vote on Ballot Measure 38.
Gary Coe

(This information furnished by Gary Coe, Speed’s Supertow.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments
Argument in Favor

INJURED OREGON WORKER SUPPORTS

REAL INSURANCE REFORM

If you work in Oregon, you should care about Measure 38.
Workers’ compensation is one of those things no one pays
attention to until you need it.
I needed workers’ comp protection in May of 2002 when I was
injured in a fall while repairing my heavy equipment. Instead of
helping me recover and get back to work, SAIF has done noth-
ing but dodge its responsibilities, delay in responding to my
needs and deny its obligations.
My experience shows that SAIF will stop at nothing to drive
workers like me into poverty to try to force an unfair settle-
ment. I’ve been forced into bankruptcy. I’ve lost almost
everything I own. This affects not only me but my wife and my
children.
At a critical stage in my medical care, SAIF fired my doctor
because she was unwavering in her medical opinion and
unwilling to give in to their threats. SAIF refused to pay for
antibiotics after surgery (agreeing to pay only for pain medi-
cation). Still my medical needs have not been met. I am totally
disabled.
SAIF still has not paid my doctor or hospital for my most recent
surgery in April.
SAIF has been a nightmare for me, and stories like mine are far
too common.
SAIF may be good for some of its big business customers, but
it’s bad for the rest of us. It’s more interested in making money
than paying injured workers their rightful benefits.

The only way to achieve real workers’ compensation insurance
reform in Oregon is to pass Measure 38.

Rocky Gordon
Cottage Grove, Oregon

(This information furnished by Rocky Gordon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

It’s the eternal last straw at which any defendant can grasp. If
you cannot dispute the message, then attack the messenger.

Rather than admit its own wrongdoing, SAIF has lashed out at
anyone who tries to hold it accountable. All the while it has
continued to foster the systemic corruption within its own
organization, eventually spreading it to other parts of state
government.
SAIF’s built quite a list of victims – and did nothing to help them.
Left with only the courts, this group banded together, thinking
the safety and strength of numbers may help them get the
justice they deserve.
They aren’t seeking special favors. They aren’t looking to get
rich. If by some chance they win, 50% of that money will be set
aside for future claims. SAIF may not take care of Oregon’s
injured workers, but hopefully the courts will.
Should a firefighter sacrifice his salary after he saves a house?

Should a doctor tear up his bill after he saves a life?
Of course not!

Then why should the attorney in the suit against SAIF reject the

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
139 | Statewide Measures

pay he would finally receive if this case is successful? The
Oregon Attorney General says it’s okay. Oregon state law says
it’s right. The only one complaining is SAIF. Could it be because
SAIF’s the one under investigation?

Remember the row of men in dark suits sitting in front of
Congress saying nicotine is not addictive? You know, the good
old boys from the tobacco industry. Do you think the attorneys
who represented cancer victims should have been punished?
No! That’s why this policy was created. So, don’t believe the
stories SAIF wants to tell to save its own skin. The law is the
law…they just don’t want to follow it.
Don’t be fooled. Don’t let them finagle. Support what’s legal.
Support what’s right.
Hear the message and defend the messenger.

Vote yes on Measure 38!
Oregonians for Accountability

(This information furnished by Lisa Gilliam, Oregonians for Accountability.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Favor

AN OREGON COMPANY INVESTED IN OUR FUTURE
Oregon is where we do business. It’s where we work and live.
We are invested in its future.
But, there is an ominous cloud on the horizon. If allowed to
grow, it could cast a dark shadow on workers’ compensation
in Oregon.

A government-run monopoly in Oregon would bring an end to
competition in our workers’ compensation insurance market,
and mean an absence of choice for Oregon businesses.

AN OREGON COMPANY COMMITTED TO COMPETITION

It is vital that Oregon voters act to reform SAIF and restore com-
petition and choice to the workers’ compensation market. It’s
imperative that state government get out of the business of
selling insurance and get back to regulating it.

Real insurance reform doesn’t mean one agency, or company,
taking over workers’ compensation insurance in Oregon. Liberty
believes it would be perilous to let SAIF become a monopoly,
and we aren’t seeking to become one either.

AN OREGON COMPANY SUPPORTING

REAL INSURANCE REFORM

Liberty is so committed to restoring competition and choice
through real insurance reform that we have proposed placing a
limit on how much of the workers’ compensation market one
company can have at any time. We are volunteering to put a cap
on how much business we can do in Oregon. Have you seen
this from SAIF? NO! Yet, it likes to call Liberty a predator and
paint itself as the prey.
There is only one predator in this market. It has run nearly every
private worker’s compensation insurance provider out of the
state. Now its sites are set on the last company still standing.
But, it doesn’t have to be this way. Together we can stop SAIF’s
predatory plan!

Join us in protecting competition and choice in Oregon.
Join us in protecting Oregon’s businesses and injured workers.

Join us in voting YES ON MEASURE 38.
Tony Ferronato, President & CEO
Liberty Northwest

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

(This information furnished by Tony Ferronato, President & CEO, Liberty
Northwest.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
140 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Opposition

WHY A FAILING PRIVATE INSURANCE COMPANY WANTS TO
ABOLISH OREGON’S SUCCESSFUL NON PROFIT ACCIDENT
INSURANCE FUND:
Liberty Northwest Insurance, a wholly owned subsidiary of
Liberty Mutual of Boston, is a for-profit insurance company that
sends its profits to the stockholders of the parent company in
Boston. Instead of competing in the market, Liberty has high-
jacked the initiative process to try to abolish its main
competition. Their goal is to dominate the market, raise rates,
and make it harder for businesses to operate in Oregon. They
have spent millions of dollars trying to do this.
SAIF insures 36,000 small businesses in Oregon. SAIF is the
most efficient and successful state workers’ compensation
insurance company in the country. It is entirely self-sufficient and
does not rely on tax revenues at all. Because of SAIF, Oregon’s
workers’ compensation rates have stayed level or gone down,
while other western state’s rates have skyrocketed. This is a
critical factor in growing and maintaining Oregon’s economy.

Why should you care? Workers who have been injured are
entitled to lifetime medical benefits for their work injuries. If SAIF
is abolished, the state of Oregon will have to pay a private insur-
ance company to manage and pay benefits due on all the claims
that were covered over the entire life of the state accident insur-
ance fund. The injured worker claims will become the obligation
of the state. Whoever manages all of SAIF’s claims will want a
profit from doing it. There will not be any money left over for the
“Oregon Priorities Fund.” The Oregon Priorities Fund is a pig in a
poke.

Abolishing SAIF will not net any money for Oregon. Instead, it
will hurt the Oregon economy and hurt injured Oregon workers.
Don’t let a private insurance company abolish Oregon’s state-
owned insurance company just so they can turn a bigger profit.
VOTE NO ON MEASURE 38.

(This information furnished by Julie Masters, Committee to Keep Business
in Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS

The Voice of Small Business

Measure 38 is Bad for Small Businesses,
Their Employees and Oregon’s Economy

National Federation of Independent Business, NFIB/Oregon, is
the state’s largest small business organization. Nearly 70% of
NFIB/Oregon’s 12,000 member companies choose SAIF for their
workers’ compensation insurance. They oppose abolishing SAIF
and they oppose Measure 38.

Statewide, SAIF insures more than 60% of small businesses and
many high-risk businesses that private insurers don’t want to
insure (such as homebuilders, nursing homes, firefighters and
farmers). If SAIF is abolished, these small and high-risk busi-
nesses would be forced to pay rates 30% to 50% higher than
what SAIF charges them.

For small businesses, workers’ compensation insurance costs
can be significant. State law requires all employers to provide
workers’ compensation coverage for their employees to make
sure injured workers get the medical treatment they deserve
when they get hurt on the job. The legislature gave SAIF the
mission to keep workers’ compensation costs low while making
coverage broadly available. SAIF works with employers to keep 

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

their employees safe on the job, lowering costs by lowering the
number of on-the-job injuries. And SAIF responds to injured
workers, handling claims with industry-leading speed.

Measure 38 is About Greed

The company behind Measure 38, Liberty Mutual Insurance of
Boston, has made Oregon and its SAIF Corporation the most
recent target of its national campaign to eliminate state workers’
compensation funds. Liberty has spent millions to browbeat
Oregonians with misleading and false information about SAIF.
According to documents from the American Insurance
Association (AIA), most other insurance companies object to
Liberty’s efforts to divert money from state funds for other public
purposes, as Measure 38 would require. Measure 38 is bad for
Oregon’s small businesses. Make no mistake – the only entity
that stands to gain from Measure 38’s passage is Liberty Mutual
Insurance.

Please Join NFIB/Oregon and

Small Businesses throughout the state

in Voting NO on Measure 38.

(This information furnished by J.L. Wilson, National Federation of
Independent Business.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Bruce Brunoe Logging

Dumped by Liberty as Too Small

Despite Clean Claims Record

Liberty Northwest ran TV ads claiming SAIF cancelled coverage
for thousands of Oregon small businesses. The ads struck me
as especially ironic.
In mid-May, Liberty Northwest sent me a letter notifying my
company that its workers’ compensation coverage would not be
renewed when the current policy expired July 1.

Why was my coverage cancelled?
Not because of accidents, or payment delinquencies, or an
adverse loss history. My company’s claims history and experi-
ence rating are clean. A senior Liberty underwriter informed us
that Liberty had to “non-renew” us because our business is too
small. “Way too much exposure for this very small premium
size,” the underwriter wrote.
The $10,900 annual premium I paid Liberty didn’t seem small to
me.
The underwriter’s memo explained that the “Logging min[imum]
prem[ium] is now up to $100,000 and mechanized logging
min[imum] is $50,000.” Even though Brunoe Logging has a clean
claims record, the underwriter concluded the memo by instruct-
ing the consultant, “Time to get off before we get the really big
loss.”
The Liberty salesperson’s letter makes the same point more dis-
creetly: “This is strictly according to new underwriting guidelines
and is not a reflection of your company’s claims history. There
are many changes that have occurred in the insurance industry
in general and, unfortunately, Liberty Northwest is being affected
too. We purchase re-insurance to cover catastrophic claims and
re-insurers are now making demands on us regarding our under-
writing.”
In the wake of Liberty’s cancellation, my company turned to
SAIF. Our SAIF coverage began in July, at a substantial savings.
But if Measure 38 had been in place, that choice would be gone.
Our small business would be forced into the state’s assigned
risk pool and forced to pay premiums 30 to 50 percent higher.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
141 | Statewide Measures

Reason enough for me to vote NO on Measure 38.

Say NO to Liberty Insurance

Vote NO on Measure 38

(This information furnished by Bruce Brunoe, Bruce Brunoe Logging.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGON NEWSPAPER EDITORS HAVE MADE IT CLEAR:

ABOLISHING SAIF IF A BAD IDEA

Here’s some of what Oregon newspaper editors have said about
Measure 38, the Liberty Insurance initiative to abolish SAIF:
“To raid SAIF would be one of the stupidest things Oregonians
could agree to. To raid it on behalf of Liberty Northwest would
be grotesquely boneheaded.” Daily Astorian, June 24, 2004

“One group likely to suffer, not benefit, if this initiative passes is
the 40,000 employers served by SAIF. SAIF has kept rates low
for them since the state Workers’ Compensation system was
reformed by legislators in 1990. Today, the system’s cost is
lower than those in 37 other states.” Grants Pass Daily Courier,
July 22, 2004

“Ballot Measure 38, which would abolish the public [SAIF] cor-
poration — has the potential to set Oregon’s business climate
back decades and cause severe harm to the state’s employers
and to injured workers.” Medford Mail Tribune, August 17, 2004

“Nearly every claim in the anti-Saif ads, including thousands of
mailers sent to Oregon businesses, is deceptive or untrue.”
The Oregonian, June 13, 2004
“SAIF accounted for about 41 percent of Oregon’s workers’
compensation business in 2002, the latest year for which figures
were available. That left 59 percent of the market to for-profit
competitors — hardly evidence that SAIF is squeezing Liberty
Northwest or anyone else out of business. Oregonians should
see the anti-SAIF campaign for what it is: a blatant bid to van-
quish a successful competitor and seize the spoils.” Statesman
Journal, August 3, 2004
“There’s no compelling reason to get rid of it [SAIF]. We should
keep it instead and be grateful that it’s there.” Albany Democrat-
Herald, July 4, 2004

“Oregonians must fix problems with Saif that do surface, but
think of the long term, too, and certainly refuse to be an accom-
plice in Liberty Northwest’s blatant bids to kill a business rival.”
Grants Pass Daily Courier, June 8, 2004

(This information furnished by Mark Nelson, Committee for SAIF-Keeping.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

GOVERNOR KULONGOSKI RECOMMENDS

A NO VOTE ON MEASURE 38.

I oppose Measure 38 because I believe it will severely damage
Oregon’s economy and limit our ability to create more jobs for
Oregonian.

Because of SAIF, Oregon businesses now enjoy some of the
lowest workers’ compensation costs in the country. Only 12
states have lower workers’ compensation insurance rates than
Oregon.

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

SAIF also makes it possible to pay injured workers in Oregon
some of the best benefits paid by any state workers’ compen-
sation program in the country.
If Measure 38 passes, lower insurance costs to employers and
higher benefits to injured workers may no longer be possible.
SAIF is one of Oregon’s primary economic development assets.

SAIF gives Oregon a competitive advantage over other states in
attracting new businesses to locate in Oregon.

SAIF makes it easier for existing Oregon companies to stay in
business and to grow and create more jobs for Oregonians.

State officials have also estimated that if Measure 38 passes, it
will add significant costs to state and local governments, includ-
ing local school district budgets. We should not increase costs
to our governmental budgets just when our economy is starting
to recover.
SAIF is also working to make sure that rural Oregonians have
access to health care.
SAIF provides low-cost malpractice insurance to over 1,000
doctors who practice in rural Oregon.
SAIF has cut the malpractice insurance rates for obstetricians by
80 percent. Family practitioners who provide obstetric services
have seen malpractice insurance rates cut by 60 percent, and
malpractice insurance rates for all other types of rural doctors
have been cut by 40 percent.

SAIF is an asset to our state and belongs to all the people of
Oregon. I urge you to vote NO on Measure 38 and work with me
to see that SAIF continues to serve the people of Oregon and its
economy.

Theodore R. Kulongoski
Governor

(This information furnished by Theodore R. Kulongoski, Governor of
Oregon.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

SPOUSE OF DECEASED OREGON WORKER

OPPOSES MEASURE 38

SAIF WORKS FOR ALL OF OREGON

My husband, Michael Vernon Stanfield, was killed on the job in a
log truck collision on Highway 42S outside of Myrtle Point,
Oregon on February 11, 2000. At that moment, my life changed.

SAIF was the worker’s compensation carrier for my husband’s
employer, a small Oregon business. Upon his death, SAIF was
there, helping me through a very traumatic time in my life. If I
had any questions, I was able to call and get an immediate
answer. They kept me informed at all times of what the process
was and even helped out with most of the paperwork. Their
compassion and caring shone through and continues to this day.
Think about it, what would you do if someone close to you was
injured or died on the job and the employer could not afford the
low rates that SAIF offers? How would you survive? What if you
were injured on the job? Do you have enough money to make it
through the hospitalizations, pay the doctor bills, rehabilitation,
time off of work to recover? SAIF takes care of its workers, SAIF
takes care of Oregon. SAIF works!

Don’t let an out of state company come in and make it hard for
our small businesses to work. Losing SAIF would be bad for
business and bad for Oregon’s economy. But, it would be worse
for those that are injured on the job and those that have to carry
on after a loved one is killed on the job.

Please join me in voting NO on Measure 38.

(This information furnished by Nora Stanfield, a SAIF beneficiary.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Associated General Contractors Oregon-Columbia Chapter

The Oregon-Columbia Chapter of AGC serves nearly 1,100
Oregon and SW Washington member firms in the commercial

construction industry. Together, we employ over 32,000

employees with family wage jobs.

AGC firms are the companies that build your schools. We build
your hospitals. We build your roads and bridges. We build your
churches and parks. We build your factories, your shopping
center and your corner market. We are proud members of
what drives Oregon’s economy, and we urge your no vote on
Measure 38.
Ballot Measure 38 is damaging to the employers in the
construction industry
Oregon’s workers’ compensation system isn’t broken. In fact,
its success in lowering costs made workers’ compensation one
of the state’s most effective economic development tools. We
in the construction industry face dramatic increases in nearly
every other insurance premium we pay: health insurance (20%+
increases), liability insurance (60%+ increases), etc. But workers’
compensation rates have decreased or held steady in 14 years.
Rates in the construction industry could rise 35% if Measure 38
passes, dampening a difficult economic recovery for the com-
mercial construction industry.
Ballot Measure 38 takes away our safety partner

The safety of our employees and jobsites is our number one
goal. Together with SAIF Corporation, AGC member firms
over the last 10 years have seen a 63.6% decline in claims 
frequency. Those are real people who are going home at the
end of the day safe instead of injured – we’ve prevented
thousands of injuries, and we couldn’t be more proud. Ballot
Measure 38 abolishes SAIF Corporation, our partner in providing
excellent safety services for all employers – from firms with over
100 employees to new companies with just 8.
Don’t fix what isn’t broken – Vote NO on Ballot Measure 38.

(This information furnished by Craig Honeyman, Executive Director,
Associated General Contractors, Oregon-Columbia Chapter.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

AN EXPERIENCED WORKERS’ COMPENSATION

INSURANCE EXECUTIVE

EXPLAINS WHY HE’S VOTING NO

ON MEASURE 38

SAIF is an Oregon Corporation helping small Oregon busi-
nesses. Oregon is known for its many small businesses and
without the low rates that SAIF is able to provide, many of these
businesses would not be able to cover their workers.

I have worked in the workers’ compensation business most of
my career. Currently I lead the workers’ compensation practice
for Anchor Insurance and Surety, a company that serves the
insurance needs of employers throughout the West.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
142 | Statewide Measures

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

I oppose Measure 38 and caution Oregon voters to beware of
the motives of the company, Liberty Northwest (part of the work-
ers’ compensation insurance industry giant, Liberty Mutual) that
is pushing the plan to abolish SAIF Corporation, the state-owned
workers’ compensation insurance company.
Workers’ compensation insurance is a unique and challenging
business. When earnings on investments of insurance reserves
are strong, private insurance companies seek to expand market
share by offering more competitive rates. When earnings suffer,
profit pressures drive rates up.

to $2.4 billion. On top of that, the measure would require local
government expenditures of $2.6 million to $10.5 million per
year on a recurring basis.
As a county commissioner I am painfully aware that the Ore g o n ’s
budget is already expected to have a $1 billion shortfall. This
county and our state simply cannot afford to waste billions on a
bad idea. We need to allocate our resources on productive
endeavors for our state, not destroy our workers’ compensation
system, one of the few competitive advantages Oregon’s econ-
omy enjoys.

State funds such as SAIF are intended to keep rates low and
keep private carriers competitive. SAIF also benefits when
investment earnings rise, but, as a nonprofit, SAIF returns its
excess earnings to policyholders as dividends. Since 1990, SAIF
has returned $734 million in dividends to policyholders. SAIF’s
nonprofit status, efficient claims management and significant
efforts aimed at workplace safety mean SAIF’s rates are lower
than its private competitors.

Liberty doesn’t like that kind of competition. And rather than
improve its own efficiencies and compete the old-fashioned way,
Liberty has sponsored Measure 38 to abolish SAIF. Liberty
claims that if Measure 38 passes, other insurers will come to
Oregon to compete. I deal with insurance companies every day
and I can tell you it’s not likely other companies would enter the
Oregon market because Liberty already has a sizable Oregon
operation in place and Oregon is too small a market to spend
money competing where industry giant Liberty already
dominates.

One thing is certain. If Liberty succeeds, Oregon businesses will
pay higher premiums. Measure 38 is bad for every business –
except Liberty’s.

PLEASE JOIN ME IN VOTING

“NO”

ON MEASURE 38

(This information furnished by Lynn Armstrong, Anchor Insurance &
Surety, Inc.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Judge Jeanne Burch

Wheeler County Commissioner

As a Wheeler County commissioner, I am responsible for admin-
istering Wheeler County’s budget. Particularly in these economic
times, which have hit rural Oregon doubly hard, it is critical that
government operate efficiently. Every dollar must be allocated to
the vital services local governments provide.
For years, thanks to SAIF Corporation, our workers’ compensa-
tion rates have been one of the few bright spots on our budgets.
SAIF has provided low-cost workers’ compensation rates
while providing excellent benefits to Wheeler County’s valued
employees.

If Measure 38 passes, that bright spot will quickly fade, giving
way to higher rates and fewer dollars for roads, public safety
and human services. This is something my county cannot afford.
The state’s fiscal impact analysis of this measure is staggering.
Measure 38 will cost taxpayers and state and local governments
millions. That translates to less money for schools. State officials
estimate that, if the measure passes, it would reduce state
revenue by $405 million annually.

The measure would also require additional state government
expenditures of $1.8 million to $5.5 million per year on a recur-
ring basis with an additional one-time expenditure of $2.2 billion

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
143 | Statewide Measures

Please Join me

in Voting

“NO”

on Measure 38

(This information furnished by Jeanne Burch, Wheeler County
Commissioner.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Smith Educational Systems
Urges Oregonians to Vote

“NO”

on Measure 38

Smith Educational Systems. is a school aimed at serving
families with young children. We are a small business offering
educational programs focused on preparing young children for
elementary school. With over 200 families in our school, we
provide educated teachers to educate your children in a safe
and loving environment. We believe this is a vital service for
preparing Oregon’s children and families for future success.
We also believe that Measure 38 would not only harm Smith
Educational Systems, but more importantly it would harm the
children and families. That’s why Smith Educational Systems
opposes Measure 38.
Workers’ compensation costs are one of the primary expen-
ditures small businesses organizations have. Low workers’
compensation rates have gone along way to helping our organi-
zation keep costs low and SAIF is the major reason why. Without
SAIF we would lose a key partner in maintaining first-rate
benefits for our employees. We would also see our workers’
compensation rates dramatically rise. It is estimated that some
businesses would be forced to endure 20 to 50 percent
increases in workers’ compensation rates.

Measure 38 is a poor choice for Smith Educational Systems, a
poor choice for small businesses and more importantly, a poor
choice for Oregon children and families.
Please Join Smith Educational Systems in
Voting NO on Measure 38

(This information furnished by Tim Smith, Smith Educational Systems.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

ASSOCIATED OREGON LOGGERS

Oppose Measure 38

Associated Oregon Loggers (AOL) represents

logging firms and businesses.

AOL is the largest loggers association (in members) in the USA.

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

Measure 38 Damages Oregon’s Economy

Measure 38 would abolish SAIF resulting in staggering increases
in workers’ compensation costs, especially for high-risk
businesses like logging. If Measure 38 is adopted, Oregon busi-
nesses would be forced to pay over $100 million more each
year, potentially costing Oregon thousands of jobs. The average
employers’ workers’ compensation rates would increase by as
much as 20 percent. Oregon’s already struggling logging indus-
try, which provides many family-wage jobs, would potentially
endure increases of 35 to 50 percent.

Measure 38 Will Cost Employees their Jobs

SAIF insures many loggers and 60 percent of Oregon’s small
and high-risk businesses – businesses private insurers don’t
want to cover. If SAIF is abolished, many companies will face
dramatically higher costs and some may be forced out of
business.
Injured workers currently covered by SAIF also would be harmed
if SAIF were abolished. SAIF makes claims decisions in half the
time it takes private carriers and makes first payments to injured
workers faster.
SAIF also partners with Oregon employers and trade associa-
tions to enhance safety and preventing injuries before they take
place. AOL members have seen a XX percent drop in injuries
and workers’ compensation claims since partnering with SAIF.
Measure 38 Is a Greedy Scheme to Benefit Liberty Insurance

Liberty Northwest and its Boston-based parent, Liberty Mutual,
its Boston-based parent company, are the only ones that benefit
from Measure 38. That’s why they’re willing to spend millions of
dollars on ads The Oregonian called “dark and deceiving.” (June
13, 2004) The attack on SAIF is part of Liberty Mutual’s national
agenda to eliminate or restrict state workers’ compensation
funds so it can make more money.
Say “L’ NO to Liberty’s greedy scheme.

Vote “No” on Measure 38

Join Associated Oregon Loggers in Keeping Oregon Strong!

(This information furnished by Jim Geisinger, Executive Vice President,
Associated Oregon Loggers, Inc.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

A LIBERTY NORTHWEST CUSTOMER

URGES A “NO” VOTE ON

MEASURE 38

Our Eugene business insures its employees with Liberty
Northwest, but we oppose Liberty’s unfounded attacks on SAIF
and the role SAIF plays in keeping Oregon’s workers’ compen-
sation costs low. We also oppose Liberty’s plan to abolish SAIF,
Ballot Measure 38.
We chose Liberty because they wanted our business enough to
offer competitive rates. But if Liberty is successful in eliminating
SAIF, its low-cost competitor, we know that Liberty will raise its
rates. This will hurt our employees, hurt our business and hurt
Oregon’s economy.

Liberty complains that it’s hard to compete with SAIF on price.
They can compete when they want to, like when they pitched
our business. According to the Oregon Insurance Division,
Liberty’s market share last year among the top 25 carriers was
20 percent, up from 19 percent in 2002 and 17 percent in 2001.
Liberty’s share of the Oregon workers’ compensation insurance
market is bigger than Liberty’s market share in 48 other states.

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
144 | Statewide Measures

And Liberty is the nation’s largest workers’ compensation com-
pany. In short, there’s no indication the company is struggling in
the Oregon market.
Liberty has mounted its campaign for Measure 38 with mislead-
ing ads and false claims. The truth is, Measure 38 is a blatant
money grab by one of America’s largest insurance companies.
They are asking Oregon voters to increase their profits, profits
sent to the parent company in Boston, at the expense of our
economy. As Liberty has proven with our firm, it can win busi-
ness when it competes. That’s the way the system is supposed
to work.
Eliminating competition by investing millions in a deceptive cam-
paign to convince Oregonians to vote against our best interests
isn’t playing fair.

I urge you to join me in voting NO on Measure 38.

(This information furnished by Alan J. Thayer, Jr., Managing Partner, Perrin
& Thayer LLP.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

FORMER SENATE PRESIDENT GENE DERFLER

URGES A “NO” VOTE ON MEASURE 38

When I entered the legislature in the 1980s, I dedicated my
legislative career to repairing Oregon’s ailing workers’ compen-
sation system. As a business owner, I knew the system was in
desperate need of repair. Not only were costs high, but services
to injured workers were deficient.

Together with a coalition of interests, we reformed Oregon’s
workers’ compensation system throughout the 1990s. Today
Oregon’s system serves as a national model. While our neigh-
bors in Washington and California have endured double-digit
rate increases, Oregon has enjoyed a basic workers’ compen-
sation rate that has not increased in 14 years.

Measure 38 asks Oregon voters to destroy our workers’ com-
pensation system by abolishing SAIF Corporation. SAIF is the
key factor keeping Oregon’s rates low. Fiscal analysis indicates
that if SAIF is abolished, the cost of workers compensation will
increase by more than $108 million a year, resulting in the loss of
thousands of jobs. Average workers compensation rates would
increase by nearly 20 percent, according to state data.
Most directly impacted would be the 44,000 employers who
insure with SAIF, and workers they employ. SAIF insures 60
percent of Oregon’s small businesses and many high-risk
businesses that private insurers don’t want to insure. If SAIF is
abolished, many of these small and high-risk businesses would
be assigned to a special high-risk pool and forced to pay rates
30 to 50 percent higher than what SAIF charges them.

Oregon businesses and employees are not promoting this meas-
ure. Indeed, they are strongly opposing Measure 38, as I do. In
fact, the measure’s only financial supporter is Liberty Northwest,
SAIF’s primary competitor. Liberty has spent millions on its
campaign to eliminate the competition and dominate Oregon’s
workers compensation market.

Measure 38 may be what’s best for Liberty Insurance, but it’s
not what’s best for Oregon workers, Oregon employers and
Oregon’s economy
Please join me in voting no on Measure 38.

(This information furnished by Gene Derfler, Former Senate President.)

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Associated Oregon Industries

Oppose Measure 38

Associated Oregon Industries represents over 20,000

member companies, employing almost one third

of the state’s private workforce.

Measure 38 Throws Oregon’s Money Down the Drain

The official projection by the State of Oregon is that Measure 38
will cost at least 2.2 billion dollars.

Measure 38 Hurts the Economy

Oregon employers will be forced to pay an average of 20% more
for workers compensation insurance if SAIF is abolished,
according to data from Oregon Department of Consumer and
Business Services. The cost of workers’ compensation for
Oregon employers will skyrocket by more than $108 million
every year, statewide. If SAIF is abolished, most employers will
have only two choices: buy expensive insurance from a private
insurance firm or close.

Measure 38 is Bad for Jobs

Abolishing SAIF will damage some 44,000 Oregon employers
who insure with SAIF. SAIF insures 60 percent of Oregon’s small
businesses and many businesses will be assigned to an expen-
sive high-risk pool and see their rates shoot up 30 to 50 percent.
Without SAIF to keep costs competitive, rates for all companies
go up. Even self-insured companies will see cost increases as
their suppliers pass on their increased costs.

Measure 38 Equals Greed

The initiative to abolish SAIF is financed and pushed by Liberty
Northwest, SAIF’s competitor. Liberty Northwest is part of an
out-of-state firm, Liberty Mutual of Boston, that paid nearly
$2 million to professional signature-gatherers to get Measure 38
on Oregon’s ballot. Liberty Mutual is pursuing a national agenda
to eliminate or restrict state workers’ compensation funds, and
Oregon is its current target.
Liberty Northwest wants profits for its eastern shareholders, not
benefits for Oregon workers and low costs for Oregon busi-
nesses. Say NO to Measure 38 and “L” NO to Liberty Insurance.

Measure 38 Deserves Your NO Vote

Please join our 20,000 Oregon business members in

voting NO on Measure 38

(This information furnished by Richard Butrick, President, Associated
Oregon Industries.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

THE OREGON BUILDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION

URGES A “NO” VOTE ON MEASURE 38

The Oregon Building Industry Association is a statewide trade

organization representing all interests of the

home building industry.

Measure 38 will Hurt Small Businesses and Employees

One of the largest expenses for small businesses and in particu-
lar homebuilders is workers’ compensation insurance. Today,
SAIF ensures 60 percent of Oregon’s small businesses and

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
145 | Statewide Measures

many high-risk businesses such as homebuilders. If SAIF is
abolished, our industry can bank on workers’ compensation
rates increasing by 50 percent. The higher costs will hamper the
construction industry, cause layoffs and at worst shut business
down.

Measure 38 will Hurt Oregon’s Economy

SAIF Corporation’s success in keeping workers’ compensation
rates low is one of the state’s most effective economic develop-
ment tools. SAIF also provides some of the highest benefits in
the nation. Oregon enjoys the best possible scenario, low rates
for employers with comparatively higher benefits to employees.
Abolishing SAIF would remove Oregon’s workers’ compensation
advantage a key ingredient to providing family-wage jobs.
Abolishing SAIF would dramatically increase the cost of workers
compensation to Oregon employers by more than $108 million
a year, resulting in the loss of thousands of jobs. Average
employers’ workers compensation rates would increase by
nearly 20 percent, according state data. Without SAIF tempering
costs in Oregon, Liberty Insurance, the sponsor of Measure 38,
would be able to charge higher rates and would have less
incentive to improve its claims and risk management services.
Injured workers currently covered by SAIF also would be hurt if
SAIF is abolished. SAIF makes claims decisions in half the time
it takes private carriers and makes first payments to injured
workers faster. Future management of their claims would be in
the hands of companies focused on profits that can only be
made if claims costs are cut.

Please Join Oregon Builders, Employers and Employees

in Voting NO on Measure 38.

(This information furnished by Scott Barrie, Oregon Building Industry
Association (OBIA).)
(This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Dear Oregon voter,

My name is Pete Sorenson, an elected Lane County
Commissioner. I grew up in Coos County, graduated from the
University of Oregon, ran a private law firm, and served as an
elected Oregon State Senator who served on the Senate
Judiciary Committee. I’ve been a licensed Oregon attorney for
22 years. My clients have included injured workers and small
businesses. Because of this experience, working on insurance
issues, that I want to provide you with my perspective on this
important measure
I oppose ballot measure 38 to abolish SAIF Corporation, for-
merly the State Accident Insurance Fund. This measure will
hurt small businesses through increased premiums and less
accountability.
SAIF was founded in 1914 as a self-supporting agency to fill a
gap in the market for affordable worker’s compensation insur-
ance. Today, SAIF serves more than 44,000 employers that
represent more than 60 percent of small businesses and over
half the non-profits in Oregon. Many of the businesses that SAIF
insures are small and high-risk businesses that if insured by pri-
vate firms would by placed in special high-risk pools that charge
higher rates.
While SAIF has engaged in some excesses in lobbying, reform
and increased accountability should be demanded, not abolish-
ing this public corporation.

Passing this measure also means higher premiums and less
accountability for small businesses, the very businesses SAIF
was created to help. Worker’s compensation insurance is very

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

important to all Oregon workers. If SAIF were abolished, insur-
ance rates would increase by nearly 20 percent and cost
businesses up to $108 million in increased rates. This means
fewer jobs and higher costs for many of Oregon’s small
businesses.
Thank you,

Pete Sorenson
PS - If you have any questions about the seriousness of this
measure to abolish SAIF and why I oppose it, please contact me
at Pete Sorenson PO Box 10836, Eugene, Oregon 97440 or call
me at (541) 485-6726 or email me at sorenson2004@juno.com.

both now struggling to reform their workers’ compensation
systems to work more like Oregon’s.

Abolishing SAIF would dramatically increase the cost of workers’
compensation to Oregon employers. Estimates indicate it could
raise rates for some businesses by 30 to 50 percent. That could
cost Oregon employer’s more than $108 million a year and may
result in the loss of thousands of jobs.
Oregon workers, businesses and our state’s economy have a lot
invested in SAIF. Abolishing SAIF would cause great harm to our
state and most importantly undermine Oregon’s future.

Please join the ONA in voting in no on Measure 38.

(This information furnished by Peter Sorenson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

(This information furnished by Debbie Cassell, President, Oregon Nurses
Association.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGONIANS ARE NOT STUPID!

Does Liberty Northwest think Oregonians are stupid?
Why would we dismantle a successful, proven, non-profit,
citizen-owned insurance company (i.e., SAIF), so that a for-profit,
unsuccessful, Boston-based insurance company (i.e., Liberty
Northwest) can raise rates and stay in business?
Ballot Measure 38 is just plain stupid!

Keep Oregon’s dollars in Oregon, not in Boston.
Keep insurance rates low.

Keep SAIF!
Vote NO on Measure 38!

(This information furnished by James B. Northrop.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

The Oregon Nurses Association

Opposes Ballot Measure 38

As the President of the Oregon Nurses Association (ONA) and a
career nurse I am acutely aware of the importance of maintain-
ing a safe workplace not only for our patients but also for the
safety of doctors, nurses and other employees in hospitals and
medical offices throughout Oregon.

The ONA believes that SAIF Corporation plays a critical role in
preventing workplace injuries. The ONA works closely with SAIF
to ensure the utmost level of care and attention is dedicated to
maintaining and enhancing safety.

Measure 38, which abolishes SAIF, would undermine all our work
and increase workers compensation costs for the medical care
providers further increasing health care costs.
The ONA believes SAIF has been an Oregon success story
since reforms to the insurer took place in the 1990s. Affordable
worker’s compensation is an important priority for Oregon’s
heath care providers and employees. SAIF has done an excel-
lent job keeping rates low. In fact, Oregon’s basic rate hasn’t
increased in 14 years, largely due to SAIF’s efforts.
Oregon’s low workers’ compensation rates are one of the best
thing the state’s economy has going for it. Oregon’s rates are
much lower than those in neighboring California and Wa s h i n g t o n ,

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
146 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Opposition

EASTERN OREGON BUSINESSES

OPPOSING MEASURE 38

BAKER CITY BUSINESSES:
Black Distributing, Inc.
BURNS BUSINESSES:
ACW, Inc.  •  Burns Building Supply
ENTERPRISE:
Alder Slope Ditch Co., Inc.
JOSEPH:
Joseph Bronze
LA GRANDE BUSINESSES:
AC&L Inc., dba Action Plumbing  •  Kohr Body Shop Inc.  •
Steven J. Joseph, P.C.  •  Nature’s Pantry, Inc.  •  Rogers
Asphalt Paving Co./Redi-Mix Concrete  •  Weaver Construction
Co.
MILTON-FREEWATER:
Lyon Repair
MT. VERNON BUSINESSES:
Dakom Logging, Inc.  •  O regon Telephone Corporation
NYSSA:
Fiesta Farms Inc.
ONTARIO BUSINESSES:
Blackaby Insurance Agency, Inc.  •  Maeda-Tuttle Construction

(This information furnished by Mark Nelson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

SOUTHERN OREGON BUSINESSES

OPPOSING MEASURE 38

ASHLAND BUSINESSES:
Ashland Greenhouses  •  Domestic Solutions LLC, Zoe
Lehmann, member  •  Siskiyou Transportation, Inc.  •  Town &
Country Chevrolet Oldsmobile, Inc.
CANYONVILLE BUSINESSES:
Canyon Hydraulics, Inc.  •  Huffman-Wright  •  Smokey’s Pals
LLC  •  South Douglas Saw Shop

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

CENTRAL POINT BUSINESSES:
Grange Co-Op  •  Hydro-Flow Inc., Raymond W. Urton,
Chairman of the Board  •  Interstate Battery Systems of
Southern Oregon  •  PremierWest Bank
DRAIN BUSINESSES:
North Douglas Economy Drugs, Inc.
EAGLE POINT BUSINESSES:
Southern Oregon Tallow Company, Inc.
GRANTS PASS BUSINESSES:
Auto Tech Mfg. LLC  •  Copeland Sand & Gravel, Inc.  •  HBA of
Josephine County  •  Henry Turk Trust  •  HMK Corporation dba
Herb’s LaCasita, Beverly C. Parker, President  •  Larson’s
Cabinet Factory Inc.  •  Royale Gardens Health & Rehabilitation
Center  •  Star Automotive  •  Wm. R. Lovelace Construction,
Inc.  •  Zottola’s Valley of the Rogue Dairy, owner-partner Palmer
Zottola
KLAMATH FALLS BUSINESSES:
AAA Discount Storage  •  Anderson Production Printing  •
Citation Upholstery  •  Frank Grohs Equipment Repair  •  Heaton
Steel & Supply, Inc.  •  Horizon Erectors, Inc.  •  Klamath Basin
HBA  •  Klamath Pacific Corp.  •  Liens Store  •  Mick Insurance
Agency, Inc., Carol Mick, President  •  Novak’s Auto Parts  •
Powley Plumbing Inc.  •  Sessler Metals, Inc. / Sessler Metals
Used Steel, Inc.  •  Wildland Timber Falling, Inc.
LAKEVIEW BUSINESSES:
Nolte Insurance Agency, Inc., Gigi Outland
MEDFORD BUSINESSES:
The Acorn Press, Inc.  •  Airport Chevrolet  •  Bach’s Camera
Center  •  C.W. Concrete, Inc.  •  Color Rite Auto Body, Roy
Borelli, owner  •  Dollar GMC-Oldsmobile  •  Forestglen Lumber
Co.  •  Modern Plumbing  •  Morgan Pacific, LLC  •  Piano
Studios & Showcase, Thomas Lowell, President  •  Profile
Grinding & Machine Inc.  •  Silver Bell Wholesale, Barbara Burke
•  Southern Oregon Subaru Volvo Mitsubishi
MYRTLE CREEK
Cam Cat Tractor Inc.  •  SA Schuyler & Sons Inc., Sidney Allen
Schuyler, President
OAKLAND
J&B Wood Products, Inc.
O’BRIEN BUSINESSES:
Mark Rehmar Studio
ROSEBURG BUSINESSES:
A-1 Auto Sales Inc.  •  AAMCO Transmissions  •  Cagle
Communications, Inc.  •  Destiny Communications Inc., Terry L.
Brown, Sec/Treasurer  •  Douglas Timber Operators, Robert
Ragon, Executive Director  •  First Strike Environmental, Judith
A. McLaughlin, Insurance Administrator  •  Roseburg Disposal
Co.  •  Walker Bros. Auto Repair Inc.  •  Western Testing, Inc.
WHITE CITY
S&B James Construction Co.

(This information furnished by Mark Nelson, Committee for SAIF-Keeping.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

CENTRAL OREGON BUSINESSES

OPPOSING MEASURE 38

BEND BUSINESSES:
Bend Heating & Sheet Metal Inc.  •  C.A.C. Transportation, Inc.
dba Central Oregon BREEZE  •  Carlson Sign, Peter Carlson,
President  •  Century Insurance Group LLC  •  Constructor
Services, Inc., Sherry W. Rodgers  •  Hancock Construction Inc.
•  High Desert Beverage Distributors, LLC, Dave Kremers, CEO

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
147 | Statewide Measures

•  Hooker Creek Companies, LLC  •  J-R’s Body & Paint Works
Inc.  •  Ken’s Ice, Ray Lakey, President  •  LAMCO Industries
Inc., Mike Erbele, President  •  Mountain High Contractors, Inc.
•  Pine Mountain Acoustical, Inc.  •  Robert S. McDaniel, CPA  •
Round Butte Seed Growers  •  The Oregon Store Inc.
MADRAS BUSINESSES:
Bright Wood Corp.  •  Madras Builders Center, Inc.  •  Tiger
Mart and Deli, Inc.
PRINEVILLE BUSINESSES:
Barr Groff Trucking  •  Cooper Electric I, LLC
REDMOND BUSINESSES:
Courtesy RV, Inc. and Courtesy RV, Inc. dba Auto Electric &
Power Systems
SISTERS BUSINESSES:
Chaparral Apartments  •  Hinterland Ranch

(This information furnished by Mark Nelson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

COLUMBIA GORGE/I-84 BUSINESSES

OPPOSING MEASURE 38

BOARDMAN BUSINESSES:
Boardman Hardware, Inc.
HEPPNER BUSINESSES:
Heppner Hardware  •  Morrow County Grain Growers, Inc.
HERMISTON BUSINESSES:
A-Plus Connectors  •  Columbia Court Club, Inc.  •  Hermiston
Home Center, Inc.  •  Power Pro, Inc., Jon Patterson
HOOD RIVER BUSINESSES:
Hood River Supply Assn.  •  Krieg Millwork & Building Supply,
Ravinder K. Grover  •  Laraway & Sons, Inc.  •  Phelps Trucking
Inc.  •  von Lubken Orchards Inc.  •  Your Rental & Party Center
PARKDALE BUSINESSES:
Lava Nursery Inc.  •  Norman L. Pratt General Contractor
PENDLETON BUSINESSES:
Hill Meat Company, William VanEtta, Controller  •  Obie’s Import
Repair, Inc.  •  West’s Rental & Sales Inc., Sharon West,
Sec/Trea.
THE DALLES BUSINESSES:
Columbia River Music, Inc.  •  Dahle Orchards  •  Orchard View
Farms, Inc.  •  Polehn Farms Inc.

(This information furnished by Mark Nelson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

OREGON COAST BUSINESSES

OPPOSING MEASURE 38

ASTORIA BUSINESSES:
Knappa Water Assn.  •  Rickenbach Construction Inc.  •
Wesrose’s Antiques  •  Wilkins Construction LLC, Jim Wilkins,
managing member
BANDON BUSINESSES:
Second Street Gallery

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

BROOKINGS BUSINESSES:
Freeman Rock, Inc.  •  Leslie E. Hahn Inc.  •  ORCA, Inc.,
Marsha Geraghty
COOS BAY BUSINESSES:
Abel Insurance Agency  •  Bay Area Chamber of Commerce  •
Blue Heron Bistro, Inc.  •  Coast Carpet, Inc., John Hamilton,
Pres.  •  Coos Bay Trawlers’ Assoc., Inc. •  Crook Timberlands
LLC  •  Doug’s Industrial Machining  •  Ferguson Transfer  •
Koontz Machine and Welding, Inc.  •  Lee Webster Excavating,
Inc.  •  Messerle & Sons  •  Raindance Laundry & Diaper
Services, LLC, Michael R. Watson, Owner  •  Thomas and Sons
Transportation  •  Vend West Services Inc.  •  West Coast
Contractors
FLORENCE BUSINESSES:
R. Scott Roberts  •  Ray Wells, Inc.
GOLD BEACH BUSINESSES:
Mike O’Dwyer, Lawyer
LINCOLN CITY BUSINESSES:
Halvorson-Mason Corp.  •  North Lincoln Sanitary Service  •
Lincoln City Chamber of Commerce
NEHALEM BUSINESSES:
Ayres Construction, Inc.
NEWPORT BUSINESSES:
Anne Herff Meyer DDS, LLC  •  Alan Brown Tire Center, Inc.  •
Associated Cleaning Svcs., Inc.  •  Barney & Larkin
Construction, Inc.  •  Orca Builders, Inc.  •  W.W. Construction,
LLC
NORTH BEND BUSINESSES:
Crown Roofing Co.  •  Donald W. Thompson, Inc., Donald J.
Thompson, President  •  Menasha Forest Products Corporation
PACIFIC CITY BUSINESSES:
GH Construction & Design, Inc.
RAINIER BUSINESSES:
Gary Holcomb, dba Riverside Auto Body
REEDSPORT BUSINESSES:
Gerhard Goorhuis DDS PC  •  Laskey-Clifton Corp.
SEASIDE BUSINESSES:
Commercial Linen Service
TILLAMOOK BUSINESSES:
Bob Wirth Motors, Inc., Robert Wirth  •  Denis Schmitz Cedar
Products  •  North Coast Door Co., Steve and Paulette Wynia
TOLEDO BUSINESSES:
KT Mitchell Trucking Co.  •  PMK Distributing Inc.
VERNONIA BUSINESSES:
Holce Logging Co., Inc., Randall E. Holce, President  •  Mike
Pihl Logging Co. Inc.
WARRENTON BUSINESSES:
Reed & Hertig Packing Co.  •  Sound Waves Car Stereo

(This information furnished by Mark Nelson.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

WILLAMETTE VALLEY BUSINESSES

OPPOSING MEASURE 38

ALBANY BUSINESSES:
B & D Custom Fabrication, Inc.  •  Brass Plumbing, Inc., Jon
Hanson, President  •  Filter Care  •  T-Plus Steel Fabricators  •
W.L. Thomas Environmental LLC

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
148 | Statewide Measures

CORVALLIS BUSINESSES:
Blackledge Furniture  •  City Limits Store  •  Columbia Concrete
Sawing Company  •  Sedlak’s Shoes  •  Starker Forests, Inc.  •
Willamette Valley HBA
EUGENE BUSINESSES:
Anchor Insurance & Surety, Inc.  •  Anslow & DeGeneault, Inc.  •
Brothers Cleaning Services, Inc.  •  Central Print &
Reprographics  •  Chambers Construction Co.  •  Colburn
Painting, Inc.  •  Egge Sand & Gravel, LLC  •  Eugene Sand &
Gravel, Inc.  •  Frontier Resources LLC  •  John Hyland
Construction  •  Noble Lumber Inc.  •  Overhead Door Co. of
Eugene-Springfield  •  Pacific Mushrooms, Inc.  •  Staton
Companies, Jeanne Staton, Pres.
McMINNVILLE BUSINESSES:
J.C. Compton Contractor, Inc.  •  High Heaven Timberlands Inc.,
Dan Grimm, President  •  James L. Heiser, L.P.T.  •  McDonald
Lane Dental Center, Celeste D. Stephans  •  McMinnville Manor
Mobile Home Park  •  Northwest Asphalt Sealing
NEWBERG BUSINESSES:
Emerick Construction  •  Fulcrum Technologies, Inc.  •  GVS
Contracting, Inc., William Dale Smith, President  •  K2MG
Interiors Inc.  •  Newberg Care Home  •  Pacific Coast Air
Balancing
SALEM BUSINESSES:
A. G. Sadowski Co.  •  Academy of Hair Design, Inc., Gene D.
Snook, President  •  Acoustic Panel Systems  •  Ankeny
Lakes/St. Maries Wild Rice Cos.  •  Boise Cascade Corporation
•  Business Connections, Inc.  •  Cal’s Propane  •  Forest
Technologies Inc., Donald M. Miller, Vice President  •  GSM
Constructors, Gordon McPherson, Owner  •  Gelco Construction
Co.  •  Hanard Machine, Inc.  •  J & J Precision Machine Inc.  •
Johnson & Ray Investment Realty, Inc.  •  Landmark Pacific Inc.
•  Marion-Polk Bldg. Ind. Assoc.  •  Meyer Nursery & Orchards
•  Noble Mountain Tree Farm  •  Oregon Lock & Access, LLC  •
The Papé Group, Inc., Lee Wood, Director of Human Resources
•  Philco & Associates Inc.  •  Salem Sand & Gravel Co.  •
Standard Utility Contractors, Inc.  •  Superfast Undercar Parts
Inc.  •  TimeMark Incorporated  •  Whitlock’s Vacuum & Sewing
Center
SPRINGFIELD BUSINESSES:
General Trailer Parts, LLC  •  Hamilton Construction Co.  •
Jensen Drilling Co.  •  L.R. Brabham Inc.  •  Olsson Industrial
Electric, Inc.  •  Omlid & Swinney Fire Protection and Security  •
Oregon Lox Co.  •  Timber Products Co.
SWEET HOME BUSINESSES:
Holley Construction, LTD.  •  Reliable Heating & Air Conditioning
•  South Fork Trading Co.

(This information furnished by Mark Nelson, Committee for SAIF-Keeping.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

WASHINGTON COUNTY BUSINESSES

OPPOSING MEASURE 38

ALOHA BUSINESSES:
Hollenbach & Hurd, Inc.
BEAVERTON BUSINESSES:
Baker Rock Resources  •  BTEX Analytical, Inc.  •  Mountain
Trucking Co., Inc.  •  Rice Studio Supply, Inc., Scott Rice,
President  •  Royal Pines Apartments  •  Seabold Construction
Co., Inc., Harry W. Seabold, Vice President
CORNELIUS BUSINESSES:
Squires Electronics  •  TVI Power & Sports, Georgia

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

Todd-Tiffany, President  •  Twigg Farm
FOREST GROVE BUSINESSES:
Hi-Tech Rockfall Construction, Inc., L. Howard Ingram, President 
GASTON BUSINESSES:
Double “G” Concrete Pumping Inc.  •  Scroggins Creek
Harvesting
GERVAIS BUSINESSES:
Fiber-Fab, Inc.
HILLSBORO BUSINESSES:
A.B. Laundry & Mat Services, LLC  •  Banner Furniture  •
Bronleewe Inc.  •  Cascade Tek  •  Columbia Corporation  •
Crestview Construction, Inc.  •  Elite Granite and Marble  •  The
Gym-Nest LTD.  •  Oregon Memorials  •  Lakeside Industries  •
New Tech Electric  •  Scottie’s Auto Body Repair, Inc.
NORTH PLAINS BUSINESSES:
Gonzales Boring & Tunneling Inc., James Gonzales, President  •
Rockford Corporation  •  Valley Machine Service
SHERWOOD BUSINESSES:
Benge Construction Co.  •  C&M Construction Inc.  •  Colamette
Construction Company, Jim Hirte, President  •  Corvette
Specialties Inc.  •   Disability Specialists Inc.  •  Westerman
Developments
TIGARD BUSINESSES:
Cambridge Machine Works Inc.  •  Blake Enterprises and the
Decorette Shop, Phillip B. Blake, President  •  Eagle-Elsner, Inc.
•  Forde Enterprises Inc., Charles Forde, CEO  •  Gregory Law
Landscape LLC  •  H & A Construction Co.  •  Northwest
Engineering Service, Inc.  •  Reitmeier Mechanical  •  Shop
Equipment Co., Inc., James Havlinek, President  •  Snyder
Roofing of Oregon L.L.C.  •  West Coast Masonry, Inc., Jeff
Petersen, President
TUALATIN BUSINESSES:
Cascade Acoustics, Inc.  •  The Cleaning Solution  •
Construction Equipment Company  •  Crawford Roll-Lite Door
Sales  •  Metro Machinery Rigging, Inc.

(This information furnished by Mark Nelson, Committee for SAIF-Keeping.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

CLACKAMAS COUNTY BUSINESSES

OPPOSING MEASURE 38

BORING BUSINESSES:
Elte, Inc., Wes Forman  •  Viking Heating Inc., Larry H.
Michelsen, Pres.
CLACKAMAS BUSINESSES:
A-Temp Heating & Cooling  •  Columbia River Contractors, Inc.
•  Goodman Sanitation, Inc.  •  Kleenair Products Co.  •
Milstead & Associates  •  Northcoast Manufactures’ Agency  •
Parkin Electric, Inc.  •  R.S. Davis Recycling, Inc.  •  Rhino
Linings of Clackamas  •  Righteous Clothing LLC, Alyson Salz,
partner  •  Town & Country Fence Co. of Oregon, Dennis Fleck,
President
ESTACADA BUSINESSES:
Oregon Tree Farms, Ltd.
GLADSTONE BUSINESSES:
Elting, Inc.  •  Hannan-Mossman Construction, Inc.
LAKE OSWEGO BUSINESSES:
American Electronics Association, Oregon Council  •  Employers
Overload, Peter J. Szambelan, Chairman/CEO  •  Glazer &
Associates, P.C.  •  Haase Industries, Inc.  •  Todd’s Import

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
149 | Statewide Measures

Automotive, Todd Weedman, owner  •  Turco Engineering, Inc.
MILWAUKIE BUSINESSES:
Eye Clinic of Milwaukie, P.C.  •  Eye Health Northwest  •  HVAC
Incorporated  •  North Clackamas Chamber of Commerce, Wilda
Parks, President/CEO  •  The Stoner Electric Group
MOLALLA BUSINESSES:
Marson Trucking Inc.  •  Superior Glass Works
OREGON CITY BUSINESSES:
Advanced American Construction, Inc.  •  Coffman Excavation,
Carl T. Coffman, President  •  Northwest Precision Fabricators  •
Proturn, Inc.  •  R. Keith Painting Inc.  •  RT & Associates, Inc.  •
Rumbold Heating & Air Conditioning, Inc., Robert B. Johnson,
Secty-Treas.  •  SingaporeMath.com Inc.  •  Vandy Farms
SANDY BUSINESSES:
Speck Enterprises  •  Web Steel Buildings
WEST LINN BUSINESSES:
Gamble Construction Services  •  Hatch Western Co., Inc.
WILSONVILLE BUSINESSES:
Columbia Development Group, Inc.  •  Coral Construction
Company, Richard C. Morgan, Controller  •  Integrity Logistics  •
Keywest Retaining Systems, Inc., Della Wyatt  •  Lance’s
Superior Auto Service  •  MSE Retaining Systems, Inc., Bob
Westlake  •  Oakleaf Park  •  Wilsonville Lock Works, Inc.

(This information furnished by Mark Nelson, Committee for SAIF-Keeping.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

PORTLAND AREA BUSINESSES

OPPOSING MEASURE 38

ABC Roofing Co. Inc.  •  ACME Welding Inc.  •  Access Ability,
Inc.  •  Altizer Enterprises, Inc., Bruce Altizer  •  Anderson
Roofing Co., Inc.  •  Arctic Sheet Metal  •  Bill R. Scharwatt  •
Blackthorn Group Inc.  •  Bristol Woodworking  •  Broadway
Import Auto Service, Inc.  •  Chemical Distributors, Inc.  •
Chnek’s JES Grocery, Juan Chiang  •  Classic Chauffeur Co.,
Inc.  •  Community Management, Inc.  •  Couturier Tree Farm  •
Crank City Inc.  •  Curtis Trailers  •  Current Electrical
Construction Company

Dailey’s Inn Inc.  •  Delta Fire, Inc.  •  David’s Appliance Inc.  •
E.E. Schenck Company  •  Emerick Construction  •  Ferguson
Commercial Coatings Co.  •  Finlandia Sauna Products, Inc.  •
Friction Products Manufacturing Co., Inc.  •  G/S Associates  •
General Tool & Supply Co.  •  General Tree Service  •  George &
Son Cutlery  •  Glacier Northwest, Inc.  •  Gordon Properties,
LLC  •  Green Transfer & Storage Co.  •  Gresham Podiatry
Center, LLC

Hammer and Hand, Inc.  •  Harmer Steel Products Company  •
Hasselblad Lumber Sales, Steven Hasselblad, President  •
Hathaway Dental Lab  •  The Heestand Company, William
Heestand  •  Howard Jacobs Masonry  •  Industrial Craters &
Packers L.L.C.  •  JCW, Inc.  •  J.E. Dunn Construction -
Northwest  •  J.S. Perrott & Co.  •  Jacobs Heating & Air
Conditioning, Inc.  •  Jarmer Electric, Inc.  •  Jordan Schrader
PC, Attorneys at Law  •  Keelson Partners  •  Kent W. Cox &
Associates, Inc.  •  Kuhnhausen’s Furniture Showcase
Mn’M Cabinet Company  •  Marque Motors, Inc., Kurt Leipzig  •
Miles Fiberglass & Composites Inc.  •  Miller Mechanical  •
Northwest Pump & Equipment  •  O’Brien Constructors, LLC  •
Oregon Auto Dealers Association  •  Overhead Door Co. of
Portland  •  P & C Construction Co.  •  Pacific Coast Paint Co.,
Inc.  •  Payne Construction, Inc.  •  Peninsula Plumbing
Company  •  Portland Music Company  •  Ramsay Signs Inc.  •

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

Reese Construction Inc., Colleen M. Reese  •  Reimers &
Jolivette, Inc.  •  Rey Reece Dealerships  •  Rubber Resource,
Inc.
Schaeffers’ Nursery, Scott Schaeffer, Partner  •  Schiller &
Vroman, Inc.  •  Starbot Inc.  •  Rev. Dr. Wesley Taylor  •  Todd
Hess Building Co.  •  Total Rental  •  Triad Mechanical, Inc.  •
Tri-County Industrial Parts, Inc.  •  Van Lom & Winge  •  Van
Lom Concrete  •  W.R. Reed & Company  •  Walsh Construction
Co.  •  Washman LLC  •  Wilhelm Trucking Co., Robert J.
Wilhelm Jr., Pres.  •  William C. Earhart Co., Inc.  •  William G.
Moe & Sons, Inc.

(This information furnished by Mark Nelson, Committee for SAIF-Keeping.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

THE Oregon Farm Bureau Urges a NO vote on Measure 38
Measure 38 is bad for farmers, bad for small businesses,

and bad for employees.

One of the largest expenses for Oregon farmers and other small,
high-risk businesses is workers’ compensation insurance. State
law requires this coverage so that injured workers get the med-
ical treatment they need. For years, SAIF has helped Oregon’s
family farmers and other small business owners get the workers’
compensation coverage they need to take care of employees.

SAIF insures 60% of Oregon’s small and high-risk businesses,
including countless family farms and ranches across the state.
Private insurance is often not available to these employers
because the risk of offering the coverage is too high and the
profits are too low. That’s why SAIF was established, and that’s
why we need SAIF now more than ever.

If allowed to pass, Measure 38 would abolish SAIF. If we lose
SAIF, family farmers and ranchers in Oregon can expect their
workers’ compensation rates to be 30%-50% higher than what
they pay under SAIF. After years of drought and low commodity
prices and other economic pressures, this is a body blow that
would needlessly endanger the survival of many of Oregon’s
family farms.
The effects of losing SAIF would go far beyond the family farm.
Small business is the backbone of Oregon’s economy and the
engine that drives the economic recovery. Loading another
$108 million onto the backs of these farms and other small
businesses would cost Oregon’s economy jobs at a time when
we can least afford to lose them.
If Oregon loses SAIF, we jeopardize Oregon’s small businesses,
family farms, and our economic recovery, all for the benefit of a
single Boston corporation.

Measure 38 threatens Oregon family farms, small businesses,
and our ability to compete and succeed. Don’t let a Boston
corporation ransack our state.

Please join me and Oregon’s family farmers and ranchers

in VOTING NO on Measure 38.

(This information furnished by Barry Bushue, President, Oregon Farm
Bureau.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
150 | Statewide Measures

Argument in Opposition

Measure 38 Will Give Us the Worst of Both Worlds:

Lower Benefits for Injured Workers,
Higher Rates for Oregon Employers

If you want to understand the real agenda behind Measure 38,
just follow the money to its prime sponsor, Liberty Northwest
and its parent corporation, Liberty Mutual.

“Liberty Mutual, one of the most profitable workers’ compen-
sation insurance companies in America, and the admitted
leader of the Measure 38 attack on Oregon’s SAIF, has a
history of manipulating state workers’ compensation and
insurance laws at the expense of injured workers and
businesses…

“Liberty’s strategy of cutting benefits for injured workers and
attacking state workers’ compensation funds has resulted in
poverty-level benefits and high prices for small businesses
throughout the country.”

--Robert E. McGarrah, Jr., JD PPH
Coordinator for Workers’ Compensation
AFL-CIO

www.oraflcio.unions-america.com/LibertyMutual.htm
Measure 38 Amounts to a Hostile Takeover of Oregon’s
Workers’ Comp Market

Liberty is sponsoring Measure 38 to eliminate the only competi-
tor that can keep it honest in the all-important business of
providing insurance to employers and benefits to workers who
are injured on the job – the State Accident Insurance Fund
(SAIF).
SAIF is not perfect. It can and should be made more account-
able to its stakeholders. But its record in keeping rates low is
unsurpassed. And it processes claims and gets first payments to
injured workers faster than its private sector competitors.
Measure 38 Will Jeopardize Benefits Promised to Disabled
Workers and Raise Rates for Employers
SAIF has set aside prudent reserves to fund its promised bene-
fits to injured workers for years to come. Measure 38 would put
those reserves on the auction block, jeopardize the benefits
promised to Oregon’s disabled workers and create a cost crisis
for employers in Oregon that could undermine our fragile
economic recovery.
Measure 38 is bad for Oregon’s workers, bad for Oregon’s
employers and bad for Oregon’s economy.
Please join us in voting No on Measure 38.

Tim Nesbitt
President
Oregon AFL-CIO

Brad Witt
Secretary-Treasurer
Oregon AFL-CIO

(This information furnished by Tim Nesbitt, President, Oregon AFL-CIO.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

Oregon’s Injured Workers Say:

Don’t Put Our Fate in the Hands of

Private Insurance Companies

On any given day you could become injured on the job and
experience first-hand what happens when greedy private insur-
ers put profits ahead of fair treatment for injured workers. This is
why, as advocates for injured workers, we oppose Ballot
Measure 38.

continued ➔

Measure 38 Arguments

Measure 38 Will Be Disastrous for Injured Workers and
Employers Alike
Measure 38 will abolish Oregon’s non-profit State Accident
Insurance Fund (SAIF) and turn our workers’ compensation
system over to private insurers.

In states where private insurers have complete control of the
workers’ compensation marketplace, we get the worst of both
worlds – rates charged to employers are higher, and benefits for
injured workers are lower.
Keep Faith with SAIF for the Benefit of Injured Workers
We have always supported a public workers’ compensation
system that can focus on delivering benefits to injured workers
and keeping premiums reasonable for employers.

SAIF is not perfect. But it is now being brought to task by a
new director appointed by the governor. More importantly, as a
non-profit agency, SAIF plays an important role in the workers’
compensation marketplace.

SAIF’s benefits for injured workers are soundly funded for the
long term.

SAIF has kept employer premiums low.
Because of SAIF, we have avoided the crises that other states
have experienced with their workers’ comp systems – crises
caused when private insurers jack up their rates to boost their
profits and then blame injured workers for the increase.
Don’t let corporate greed do more damage to our workers’ com-
pensation system by eliminating an organization that can be a
force for good for injured workers.
For the sake of Oregon’s injured workers and their loved
ones, and for those who will be injured in the future, please
join us in voting No on Measure 38.
Ernest E. Delmazzo
Co-founder/Executive Director
Injured Workers’ Alliance

Mike Maier
Secretary
Injured Worker Coalition

(This information furnished by Tim Nesbitt, President, Oregon AFL-CIO.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

CISNEROS CONSTRUCTION, INC.

Ballot Measure 38

IS BAD FOR OREGON’S SMALL BUSINESSES

Oregon’s workers’ compensation system is critical to the suc-
cess of my construction business. Low workers’ compensation
rates, coupled with the dividends I receive from SAIF, allow my
business to grow, and provide better benefits. Without the low
rates and excellent service SAIF provides, many small busi-
nesses would struggle to stay afloat.

Ballot Measure 38

WILL RAISE WORKERS’ COMPENSATION RATES
My employees, currently covered by SAIF, will be harmed if
SAIF were abolished. SAIF makes claims decisions in half the
time it takes private carriers and makes first payments to injured
workers faster. It’s important to me that my valued employees
get the medical care they need.

Abolishing SAIF will also dramatically increase the cost of
workers’ compensation in the construction industry. If SAIF is
abolished, Oregon contractors could be forced to pay premiums
30-50 percent higher than with SAIF.

SAIF also partners with our industry to enhance on-the-job

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
151 | Statewide Measures

safety, which helps prevent on the job injuries. On average, our
industry has seen a 60 percent drop in injuries and workers’
compensation claims since partnering with SAIF.

Ballot Measure 38

ENCOURAGES CORPORATE GREED

I am personally offended by the misleading and false commer-
cials Liberty Insurance has inundated Oregonians with over the
course of their campaign. I find it shocking those corporations
would choose to run their business in such a predatory and
unethical manner. I know first hand that small construction con-
tractors receive first rate service from SAIF. Many of us couldn’t
even get insurance from Liberty because we are too small, too
risky, and don’t make Liberty’s shareholders enough profit. SAIF
is there for us, not Liberty Insurance. Liberty’s greed and self
interest are not what is best for Oregon business, workers and
families.

PREVENT THE DEMOLITION OF OREGON’S ECONOMY

VOTE “NO” on BALLOT MEASURE 38

(This information furnished by John Cisneros, Cisneros Construction, Inc.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

Argument in Opposition

VOTE NO ON 38

PROTECT INJURED WORKERS

IF YOU LIKE WHAT THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY HAS DONE

TO THE COST OF HEALTH INSURANCE,

YOU WILL LOVE MEASURE 38

Service Employees International Union Local 503, OPEU

opposes Measure 38. The insurance industry is bankrolling
passage of this measure in order to decrease competition in the
area of workers’ compensation insurance.

Business and labor rely on affordable workers compensation
coverage in order to make sure workers injured on the job can
be treated fairly and can receive the benefits and protection they
deserve.

The effect of Measure 38 would be out-of-control insurance

costs. Small business in certain industries, like nursing home
and long-term care, could be forced into a high-risk pool. They
could see their insurance costs rise by 30% to 50%.

Measure 38 would cost taxpayers more than $2.1 Billion,

according to the official Financial Impact Committee.

Privatization of public services often has hidden costs. This

time the cost is out in the open.

SEIU Local 503 is committed to fighting for lower health

insurance rates, and in this case, lower workers’ compensa-
tion insurance rates. Oregon’s working families cannot afford
profiteering by the insurance industry. Workers are already
squeezed enough. Now is the time for voters to fight back
against the insurance industry.

The working men and women of SEIU Local 503 urge you to

say NO to profiteering by big insurance companies and VOTE
NO on Measure 38.

For more information, please go to www.seiu503.org.

(This information furnished by Arthur Towers, Service Employees
International Union Local 503, OPEU.)
This space purchased for $500 in accordance with ORS 251.255.
The printing of this argument does not constitute an endorsement by
the State of Oregon, nor does the state warrant the accuracy or truth
of any statement made in the arg u m e n t .

County Elections Offices

Baker

Benton

Tamara J. Green
Baker County Clerk
1995 3rd St., Suite 150
Baker City, OR 97814-3398
541-523-8207  TTY 541-523-8208
e-mail: tgreen@bakercounty.org

James Morales
Benton County Clerk
Elections Division
120 NW 4th St., Room 13
Corvallis, OR 97330
541-766-6756  TTY 541-766-6080
Fax 541-766-6757

Clackamas Sherry Hall

Clackamas County Clerk
Elections Division
825 Portland Ave.
Gladstone, OR 97027
503-655-8510  TTY 503-655-1685
Fax 503-655-8461
e-mail: elections@co.clackamas.or.us
http://www.co.clackamas.or.us/elections

Clatsop

Columbia

Coos

Crook

Curry

Betsy Moes
Clatsop County Clerk
Elections Division
PO Box 178
Astoria, OR 97103-0178
503-325-8511  TTY 503-325-9307
Fax 503-325-9307
e-mail: nwilliams@co.clatsop.or.us
http://www.co.clatsop.or.us

Elizabeth (Betty) Huser
Columbia County Clerk
Courthouse, 230 Strand St.
St. Helens, OR 97051-2089
503-397-7214  TTY 503-397-7246
Fax 503-397-7266
e-mail: huserb@co.columbia.or.us
http://www.co.columbia.or.us

Terri L. Turi, CCC
Coos County Clerk
Courthouse, 250 N. Baxter
Coquille, OR 97423-1899
541-396-3121, Ext. 301
TTY 1-800-735-2900  Fax 541-396-6551
e-mail: elections@co.coos.or.us
http://www.co.coos.or.us

Deanna (Dee) Berman
Crook County Clerk
300 NE Third, Room 23
Prineville, OR 97754-1919
541-447-6553  TTY 541-416-4963

Renee´ Kolen
Curry County Clerk
PO Box 746
Gold Beach, OR 97444
541-247-3297 or 1-877-739-4218
TTY 1-800-735-2900  Fax 541-247-6440

Deschutes Nancy Blankenship

Deschutes County Clerk
1300 NW Wall St., Suite 200
Bend, OR 97701
541-388-6546  Fax 541-383-4424
e-mail: elections@deschutes.org
http://www.deschutes.org

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
152 | General Information

Douglas

Gilliam

Grant

Harney

Barbara E. Nielsen
Douglas County Clerk
PO Box 10
Roseburg, OR 97470-0004
541-440-4252  TTY 1-800-735-2900
Fax 541-440-4408
e-mail: lmdilley@co.douglas.or.us

Rena Kennedy 
Gilliam County Clerk
PO Box 427
Condon, OR 97823-0427
541-384-2311

Kathy McKinnon
Grant County Clerk
201 S. Humbolt, Suite 290
Canyon City, OR 97820-0039
541-575-1675  TTY 541-575-1675
Fax 541-575-2248
e-mail: grantco@oregontrail.net

Maria Iturriaga
Harney County Clerk
Courthouse, 450 N. Buena Vista
Burns, OR 97720
541-573-6641  Fax 541-573-8370
e-mail: clerk@co.harney.or.us
http://www.co.harney.or.us

Hood River Sandra Berry

Director, Records/Assessment
601 State St.
Hood River, OR 97031-1871
541-386-1442

Jackson

Jefferson

Kathy Beckett 
Jackson County Clerk
1101 W. Main St., Suite 201
Medford, OR 97501-2369
541-774-6148  TTY 541-774-6719
Fax 541-774-6140
e-mail: becketks@jacksoncounty.org
http://www.co.jackson.or.us

Kathy Marston 
Jefferson County Clerk
66 SE “D” St., Suite C
Madras, OR 97741
541-475-4451  Fax 541-325-5018
e-mail: kathy. m a r s t o n @ c o . j e ff e r s o n . o r. u s

Josephine Georgette Brown 

Josephine County Clerk
PO Box 69
Grants Pass, OR 97528-0203
541-474-5243  TTY 1-800-735-2900
Fax 541-474-5246
e-mail: clerk@co.josephine.or.us

Klamath

Linda Smith
Klamath County Clerk 
305 Main St.
Klamath Falls, OR 97601
541-883-5157 or 1-800-377-6094
Fax 541-885-6757
e-mail: lsmith@co.klamath.or.us
http://www.co.klamath.or.us

continued ➔

County Elections Offices

Lake

Lane

Lincoln

Linn

Malheur

Marion

Morrow

Stacie Geaney
Lake County Clerk
513 Center St.
Lakeview, OR 97630-1539
541-947-6006

Annette Newingham
Chief Deputy County Clerk
275 W. 10th Ave.
Eugene, OR 97401-3008
541-682-4234  TTY 541-682-4320
Fax 541-682-2303
http://www.co.lane.or.us/elections

Dana Jenkins 
Lincoln County Clerk
225 W. Olive St., Room 201
Newport, OR 97365
541-265-4131  TTY 541-265-4193
Fax 541-265-4950
http://www.co.lincoln.or.us/clerk

Steve Druckenmiller 
Linn County Clerk
300 SW 4th Ave.
Albany, OR 97321
541-967-3831  TTY 541-967-3833
Fax 541-926-5109
e-mail: sdruckenmiller@co.linn.or.us

Deborah R. DeLong 
Malheur County Clerk
251 “B” St. West, Suite 4
Vale, OR 97918
541-473-5151  TTY 541-473-5157
Fax 541-473-5523
e-mail: ddelong@malheurco.org
http://www.malheurco.org

Sharon Ricks
Marion County Elections Division
4263 Commercial St. SE, #300
Salem, OR 97302-3987
503-588-5041 or 1-800-655-5388
TTY 503-588-5610
e-mail: elections@co.marion.or.us
http://clerk.co.marion.or.us

Sherman

Tillamook

Umatilla

Union

Wallowa

Wasco

Linda Cornie 
Sherman County Clerk
PO Box 365
Moro, OR 97039-0365
541-565-3606  Fax 541-565-3312
e-mail: lcornie@sherman.k12.or.us

Tassi O’Neil
Tillamook County Clerk
201 Laurel Ave.
Tillamook, OR 97141
503-842-3402  Fax 503-842-1599
e-mail: toneil@co.tillamook.or.us
http://www.co.tillamook.or.us

Patti Chapman
Director of Elections
PO Box 1227
Pendleton, OR 97801
541-278-6254  Fax 541-278-5467
e-mail: pattic@co.umatilla.or.us
http://www.co.umatilla.or.us

R. Nellie Bogue-Hibbert 
Union County Clerk
1001 4th St., Suite D
LaGrande, OR 97850
541-963-1006  Fax 541-963-1013
e-mail: nhibbert@union-county.org
http://www.union-county.org

Charlotte McIver
Wallowa County Clerk
101 S. River St., Room 100, Door 16
Enterprise, OR 97828-1335
541-426-4543, Ext. 15  Fax 541-426-5901
e-mail: wcclerk@co.wallowa.or.us
http://www.co.wallowa.or.us

Karen LeBreton Coats
Wasco County Clerk
511 Washington St., Room 201
The Dalles, OR 97058
541-506-2530 TTY 541-506-2530
Fax 541-506-2531
e-mail: karenl@co.wasco.or.us

Barbara Bloodsworth 
Morrow County Clerk
PO Box 338
Heppner, OR 97836-0338
541-676-5604  TTY 541-676-9061
e-mail: bbloodsworth@co.morrow.or.us

Washington Mickie Kawai

Elections Division
3700 SW Murray Blvd., Suite 101
Beaverton, OR 97005
503-846-5800  TTY 503-846-4598
e-mail: election@co.washington.or.us
http://www.co.washington.or.us

Multnomah John Kauffman

Director of Elections
1040 SE Morrison St.
Portland, OR 97214-2495
503-988-3720  Fax 503-988-3719
e-mail: john.kauffman@co.multnomah.or.us
http://www.mcelections.org

Polk

Valerie Unger 
Polk County Clerk
850 Main St.
Dallas, OR 97338-3179
503-623-9217  TTY 503-623-7557
Fax 503-623-0717
e-mail: unger.valerie@co.polk.or.us
http://www.co.polk.or.us

Official 2004 General Election Voters’ Pamphlet
153 | General Information

Wheeler

Yamhill

Barbara S. Sitton
Wheeler County Clerk
PO Box 327
Fossil, OR 97830-0327
541-763-2400  TTY 541-763-2401
Fax 541-763-2026
e-mail: bsitton@ncesd.k12.or.us

Jan Coleman 
Yamhill County Clerk
535 NE 5th St., Room 119
McMinnville, OR 97128-4593
503-434-7518  TTY 1-800-735-2900
Fax 503-434-7520
e-mail: elections@co.yamhill.or.us
http://www.co.yamhill.or.us/clerk/elections

S E C R E TA RY OF STAT E
Bill Bradbury
State Capitol
Salem, Oregon 97310-0722

N O N P R O F I T
C A R - RT SORT
U.S. Postage

P A I D

Portland, OR
Permit No. 815

RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER 

v o t e r s ’
p a m p h l e t

volume 1 – state measures

Oregon Vote-by-Mail General Election | November 2, 2004

Please RECYCLE this pamphlet with your newspapers

